|alias = Agnes O'Connor The Nosy Neighbor 
|undercover = Sharon Davis }}
|species = Human Ghost
|citizenship = (formerly) (formerly) 
|gender = Female
|DOB = 1674-1675 
|DOD = November 2026 
|title = Spirit Witch 
|affiliation = Salemites (formerly) Agatha Harkness' Coven (formerly) 
|tv series = Agatha All Along (9 episodes) }}
|actor = Kathryn Hahn
|status = Deceased}}
 
Agatha Harkness was the daughter of Evanora Harkness and an infamous witch from Salem, Massachusetts, who mastered in practicing dark magic. She later gave birth to her son, Nicholas Scratch, who was born sick and frail, and initially lived a quiet life with him, killing witches every once in a while to steal their powers, until he died from his illnesses. Having created the tale of the Witches' Road with Scratch prior to his death, Harkness was approached by numerous witches who sought the Road and tricked them into joining her in a coven only to later provoke them into attacking her to steal their powers, repeating this for almost three centuries.

In 2023, she sensed the presence of chaos magic radiating from the Westview Anomaly created by Wanda Maximoff. Unfazed by her thrall over the population of Westview, Harkness became obsessed with harnessing Maximoff's magic. Living under the pretense of the WandaVision sitcom, she stole Ralph Bohner's house and undertook the guise of Agnes O'Connor, Maximoff's "nosy neighbor," all the while interfering with Maximoff's idyllic paradise to her own benefit. Upon seeing Maximoff transform into the fabled Scarlet Witch, Harkness was defeated and stripped of her magical abilities, indefinitely condemned and brainwashed to live out her life as O'Connor in Westview.

However, in 2026, two years after the death of Scarlet Witch, the spell that had enthralled Harkness failed and was broken by Billy Maximoff. Pursued by the vengeful Salem Seven, Harkness assembled a coven with Maximoff, intending to trick them, but was surprised when the Road manifested into existence due to Maximoff's chaos magic. Harkness walked the Road with her coven in an attempt to regain her lost powers, coming into confrontation with the sins of her past and her former lover Death, who planned to claim Maximoff's soul due to him upsetting the sacred balance by resurrecting himself. Realizing the error of her ways, she sacrificed herself to save Wiccan from Death but soon returned as a ghost and joined him in searching for his brother Tommy Maximoff.

## Biography

 

### Salem Witch

#### Put on Trial

 
 ]]
Being a witch and a member of the Salemites, Agatha Harkness stole forbidden knowledge and secretly practiced dark magic, until she was caught by her coven. During the height of the in 1693, Harkness was captured and dragged through the woods for a trial and bound to a wooden post. After Harkness reaffirmed that she was a witch, her mother, Evanora Harkness, stated that she had betrayed her coven, stolen knowledge above her place, and practiced the darkest of magic, which Harkness denied.
 ]]
The witches tried to kill Harkness with energy beams as Harkness pleaded with Evanora. Harkness continued to cry until her powers took over and she reversed the effect of the beams onto the witches, killing them. Harkness broke free of the post and killed Evanora before taking the brooch off her mother's corpse and flying away. 

### A Coven-less Witch

#### Love Affair with Death

 
Harkness met another witch named Rio Vidal, who she discovered was actually the cosmic entity Death. The two became impassioned lovers, and their relationship primarily consisted of killing, which benefited them both. Harkness and Vidal had many adventures together, with Harkness taking vast amounts of lives that Vidal collected. 

#### Doomed Motherhood

 to spare her son's life]]
 
In 1750, Harkness became pregnant. However, the life of her unborn child was jeopardized. When Harkness went into labor, she ran into the woods, but was soon found by Death, who had arrived to collect her child. Harkness was horrified to see Death and could not believe what she was doing, but Death stated that it must happen.
 ]]
Harkness told Death that if she took her child away, she would hate her forever. Harkness desperately begged Death, who decided to grant Harkness more time with her child but was unable to change their fate. Harkness asked how long she had, but Death disappeared. Harkness then gave birth and held her child, saying that she did not use magic to create him but had made him from "scratch," thus naming him Nicholas Scratch. Although knowing her time was limited with her son, Harkness smiled as she held him.
 
While walking through the woods with a crying Scratch one day, Harkness came across a coven of witches. She approached the coven, pretending that they had not eaten in days. They were invited into the coven's circle, however, as soon as she had gained their trust, Harkness attacked the witches, forcing them to fight back. Harkness stole all of the witches' magic, killing all of them. Harkness noticed that Scratch had soothed and realized she could use him to help her kill more witches. 

#### Time with Nicholas Scratch

 come up with a song]]
 
Over the next six years, Harkness raised Nicholas Scratch to help her trick witches, getting him to lure them to Harkness so that she could kill them and steal their power. This forced them to constantly be moving around. While walking, Scratch asked Harkness why she killed witches, which she explained was to survive. Scratch asked why they couldn't just survive with the witches, but Harkness answered that it was because the witches would try to kill them.
 to her son]]
Scratch then began to sing a song about walking the road, which Harkness joined in on, helping come up with lyrics to it with her son. When Scratch told his mother that he was hungry, asking her to use her magic, she explained that her powers were not capable of healing him and that she did not know when Death would come for him. Continuing on their travels, the two completed their song, which became the Ballad of the Witches' Road. Harkness had Scratch sing the song to lure more witches.
 has died]]
But, when Scratch was offered help from one, Harkness saw him reject the offer and walk off. That night, Harkness found her son, who said that they could kill more witches tomorrow. Harkness smiled at her son and began singing the Ballad with him as they prepared to rest for the night. That morning, when Harkness woke up, she discovered that Scratch had died, realizing that Death had finally come for him. Harkness begged for more time as she cried over her son's body. 

#### Creating the Witches' Road
	
 is real]]
 
As Harkness buried her son, she tearfully sang the Ballad of the Witches' Road with changed lyrics to reflect her current sadness. Harkness was interrupted by a young witch, who asked if she knew the way to the Witches' Road, having heard her sing the Ballad. Surprised that her song had turned into a tale, Harkness opportunistically claimed that she knew the way and would help the young witch, secretly planning to kill her.
 with a coven]]
As part of the deception, Harkness told that young witch that she would need a coven in order to access the Road. Once the coven was formed, Harkness led them into the forest, where she had them all hold hands and sing the Ballad together, pretending that it would open a door to the Road. Once they finished singing and nothing happened, Harkness acted confused before aggressively berating the coven. Provoked by Harkness, the coven attacked her, allowing Harkness to steal their magic, killing them.
 
Having found a new way to kill witches in order to survive, Harkness carried on this scam for centuries, tricking countless covens that came seeking her help for finding the Road. Each time, Harkness would successfully lure the covens out to the forest and repeat the same performance, resulting in her gleefully killing the entire coven. Over time, rumors formed about the Road, most notably that Harkness had formed a coven to walk the Road but was the only member to survive. 

#### Present at Disasters

 
 , ).|Brujapedia|Familiar by Thy Side}}
Harkness was present at and witnessed multiple disasters throughout the mid-20th century, including the in 1912 and the in 1937. In the 1920s, Harkness resided in Boston, selling spells to make money. Because of this, she was approached by a Doctor who had her bind an unnamed witch's magic under threat of immolation. 
 ]]
By the 1970s, Harkness had relocated to Nashville and met Dolly Parton. Parton became frustrated with Harkness and slapped her, getting caught on camera. Parton then wrote a song about the incident, naming it " ." Parton did not share the true identity of "Jolene," and Harkness later left. 
 

#### Corrupted by the Darkhold

 
Harkness took possession of the Darkhold and used it to amplify her magic. Eventually, the Darkhold corrupted Harkness' mind and turned her fingertips black. Due to her exposure to dark magic, Harkness' relationship with Death was strained, resulting in them becoming bitter enemies. Due to Harkness' infamous reputation among the witch community, one of the many rumors surrounding her was that she had traded Nicholas Scratch to obtain the Darkhold. 

### Westview Anomaly

#### Welcoming Wanda Maximoff

 , New Jersey]]
 
In late 2023, Harkness sensed a confusing mixture of magical energy coming from the town of Westview, New Jersey. When she arrived there, she discovered it was in a warped reality that appeared like a 50s sitcom, and everyone in it was under the control of Wanda Maximoff. Harkness decided she needed to know how Maximoff created this reality, as it was greater than any magic she had seen before, and entered the anomaly, being the only person in it unaffected by it, besides Maximoff. To do so, she used the Darkhold to enhance her powers. 
 
Harkness decided to sneak herself into Maximoff's family dynamic, under the guise of a clueless housewife named "Agnes." "Agnes" was the first neighbor who greeted Maximoff, after she and Vision "moved" to Westview as a happily married couple. Once Maximoff had introduced herself, "Agnes" noticed how Maximoff had arranged their belongings so quickly, and Maximoff lied to her that she had used a moving service.
 ]]
Maximoff shared that she was preparing for a special occasion later that day, and instead affirmed "Agnes'" guess that it was the anniversary of Maximoff and Vision. "Agnes'" questions about her having no wedding rings and their non-specific anniversary date caught Maximoff off-guard. She offered to help Maximoff plan their special night, while complaining to her about her deadbeat husband Ralph.
 ]]
Once Wanda realized that her special night was her and Vision treating dinner to Vision's boss Arthur Hart and his wife Mrs. Hart, she called "Agnes" to help. "Agnes" happily agreed, and she arrived at the Vision Residence with a large amount of food, that she and Maximoff could use to cook. She accidentally dropped a pot, which the Harts and Vision overheard. Maximoff rushed out "Agnes," so she could use her abilities to cook, despite "Agnes'" offer to help cook and to exchange gossip. 

#### Committee Meeting

 ]]
 
"Agnes" helped Wanda Maximoff and Vision's magic act for the Westview Talent Show, by lending them her pet rabbit, Señor Scratchy, whom she said played Jesus at a Christmas pageant the previous year.

Having exchanged playful banter with Dennis the Mailman, she accompanied Maximoff to a committee meeting "Dottie Jones" and her group of fellow housewives. She warned Maximoff about Jones' influence on the town, and advised her to get on Jones' good side to make her life easier.

She sat beside Maximoff during the meeting, and later offered alcohol to "Beverly," after she was humiliated by "Jones." She continued drinking and silently remarked to Maximoff that she was surprised that anyone could stay sober. 

#### Westview Talent Show

 
 
"Agnes" was in the audience during the Westview Talent Show, and secretly sabotaged the Magic being performed by Wanda Maximoff and Vision, which turned comedic due to Vision's intoxication and Maximoff's improvisation. Upon seeing Señor Scratchy on stage, "Agnes" bragged to the other audience members about the rabbit's star quality.

When Maximoff and Vision brought out the Cabinet of Mysteries, "Agnes" jokingly offered her "husband," Ralph to the couple so that he could disappear, which elicited laughs from the audience. With an unintentionally successful show staged by the couple, "Agnes" was the first to offer a standing ovation among the crowd. 

#### Suspicion about Geraldine

 under her control spell]]
 
Agnes was seen helping Wanda Maximoff buy baby clothes, while they walked through Westview together. Later on, she cast a spell on Herb Feltman in order to make him act like he knew about Westview's secret, in order to make Vision suspicious of Geraldine. 
 
When Vision saw them gossiping and approached the two, he deduced that they were talking about something related to them. When Vision tried to leave, Agnes called him over and asked if Geraldine was with Maximoff. She and Feltman explained that Geraldine was new to the town she but seemed suspicious since she had no family or home in Westview. When Feltman tried to explain why Geraldine arrived at town, Agnes stopped him, and instead left the two, saying that she needed to set up her macramé at home. 

#### Babysitter in Need

 ]]
 
With Wanda Maximoff and Vision unable to rest due to their newborn children, Tommy and Billy, Maximoff suggested they need help. Right on cue, Agnes arrived, offering to help them instead of her scheduled jazz-ercise. Agnes' timing aroused Vision's suspicions, which made him tell her not to help them.
 ]]
Agnes suddenly shifted in demeanor; she suddenly asked Maximoff if she should repeat her lines and redo the scene from the beginning. This further confused Vision, and shocked Maximoff as she realized Agnes was aware of her created reality as a simulated sitcom. Maximoff declared Agnes would help, so Agnes returned to her persona to take care of the twin babies, using an exercise routine to rock their cribs, spraying lavender on them, and finding dark liquor for the twins. When the babies suddenly aged themselves up to five years old, Agnes was unfazed, instead contemplating about the uncontrollable nature of children. 

#### Killing Sparky

 
Agnes later returned to the Vision Residence with exactly the item they need, a new doghouse, which Agnes had brought over after seeing that they have a new pet dog. She subsequently named the family's new dog Sparky.

While Agnes was still there, Wanda Maximoff created a dog tag in Agnes' presence, despite her and Vision's agreement to hide their abilities, attributing to her obliviousness when the boys aged up. When the twins aged again to ten years old, Agnes merely quipped that they hoped Sparky stays the same size. 
 ]]
When Sparky ran away from the Maximoffs' home, Agnes had Ralph Bohner kill the dog before they could find him. She wrapped him up in a cloth before the Maximoffs arrived at her home, where she broke the bad news, claiming that Sparky had died from eating from her azalea bushes and that she discovered him too late.

Agnes then overheard Tommy stating Maximoff could fix the dead, and Agnes asked her if she could resurrect the dead. She then stood by and agreed as Maximoff advised her children that she could not run away from situations like the boys' aging, or reversing death. Agnes later brought Bohner as Pietro Maximoff to the Vision Residence door in order to confuse her further. 

#### Awakened by Vision

 in a trance-like state]]
 
During Halloween night in Westview, Agnes drove to the outskirts of Westview just nearby the barrier of the Hex. Vision discovered Agnes in her car at an intersection furthest from town, pretending to be frozen in a trance. Agnes told him that she took a wrong turn trying to get to the Town Square Scare, which Vision asked how she got lost in the town she grew up in. Vision decided to use his powers derived from the Mind Stone to take her out of her trance.
 
Agnes then pretended to be shocked to see Vision's presence, recognizing him as one of the Avengers, and asked if he was here to help. When Vision revealed he didn't know what an Avenger was, Agnes acted confused, asking if she had died. Vision assured her that she had not, and asked her why she would think as much, to which she replied with telling Vision that he himself was dead, as he was killed during the Battle of Wakanda. She later told him that no one could leave Westview and Wanda would not let anyone think about it. She then proceeded to cackle maniacally before Vision put her back in her previous state. Agnes suddenly acted in-character, and drove back towards the center of the city, much to Vision's confusion. 

### Uncovering the Truth

#### Kidnapping the Maximoff Twins

 and Billy Maximoff]]
 
Due to Wanda Maximoff wallowing in her depression, Agnes offered to take Tommy and Billy Maximoff away from her so she could relax. She gave them food and drink whilst letting them watch television, assuring them that their mom would be fine, even though she was not sure herself. 

#### Revealing Her True Self

 and Monica Rambeau's conversation]]
 
Later, during a confrontation between Wanda Maximoff and Monica Rambeau, Agnes got involved to help Maximoff. She took Maximoff back to her house, and following Maximoff's suspicion concerning where Tommy and Billy Maximoff were, Agnes informed her that the kids were probably playing in the basement.
 ]]
Once Maximoff was down in the basement, she discovered Agnes' lair, moments before being locked in, and Agnes finally revealing herself as the witch, Agatha Harkness. She enthralled Maximoff, projecting visions into her mind that revealed herself to have manipulated the recent events, which included controlling Herb Feltman, lying to Vision to further distance him from Maximoff, killing Sparky, and sending "Pietro Maximoff" to watch over Maximoff. 
 
Maximoff attempted to read Harkness' mind, but this proved ineffective as Harkness had placed a protection spell around the room with runic symbols and in turn bound Maximoff in magical bonds. She then demonstrated her magical powers to Maximoff including transmutation and mind control and explained to Maximoff that she is capable of performing such magic but on a grander scale. Harkness then demanded to know how Maximoff created the Hex in the first place, but Maximoff was unable to recall how she pulled it off.
 ]]
Deciding to use a bit more finesse in her interrogation, Harkness plucked a hair from Maximoff's head and used it to open a gateway into Maximoff's memories and to ensure Maximoff would follow her. Harkness revealed she was still holding Tommy and Billy somewhere in her dungeon, and having no other choice Maximoff followed Harkness through the door. 

#### Revisiting Wanda's Past

 her youth]]
 
Harkness and Wanda Maximoff went through Maximoff's traumatic life experiences including the death of her parents, being experimented on by Hydra, and falling in love with Vision while living at the Avengers Compound, as well as her lifelong obsession with sitcoms having grown up watching them in order to learn English.
 ]]
They then witnessed Maximoff arriving at S.W.O.R.D. Headquarters and seeing Vision's body before going to Westview, the place where Vision had planned for them to live together. In her grief, Maximoff created the Westview Anomaly, as well as reconstructing Vision from her connection with the Mind Stone. 

### Enchanted

#### Battle of Westview

 and Billy Maximoff]]
 
Having seen all she needed to put the pieces together, Harkness applauded Wanda Maximoff's display of Magic, before teleporting outside, where she held Tommy and Billy Maximoff with magical nooses around their throats, Harkness then revealed to Maximoff that she was a being long thought to be a myth, a being capable of creating something from nothing with the great power of Chaos Magic, and Maximoff was in fact the Scarlet Witch. 
 's magic]]
Maximoff attacked Harkness to release her hold on her children, before ordering them both inside of the Vision Residence to shield themselves. Attempting a second attack, Maximoff soon discovered that Harkness was able to not only absorb her chaos magic, but take a portion of her life force as well. Harkness attempted to strike a bargain with Maximoff: she would be able to maintain the Westview Anomaly, but she would have to give up the chaos powers.
 
Maximoff responded by chucking a car at her, but she teleported away. Harkness only re-appeared once to comment on White Vision and Maximoff's Vision standing together in the same vicinity, taunting Maximoff in the process. Harkness later ambushed Maximoff at the town square, bringing the Darkhold to lecture her about the legend of the Scarlet Witch: a being destined to destroy the world, forged into existence possessing magical abilities surpassing those of the Sorcerer Supreme, that same magic not bound to a coven or incantation.
 ]]
When Maximoff attempted to reject any correlation to legend, Harkness responded by releasing the residents of Westview from Maximoff's influence. They immediately confronted her with pleas and questions in regards to their loved ones, causing an incredibly tense Maximoff to break down and inadvertently release a wave of magic that began to suffocate them. While Maximoff quickly reversed the spell, Harkness pointed out that heroes do not torture people.
 be taken down]]
This caused Maximoff to begin destroying the Anomaly, but in doing so caused the rest of her family to disintegrate, leading for Harkness to remark that one world could not exist without the other. They were saved when Maximoff halted the Anomaly's destruction, and while they reunited, Harkness attacked them, prompting Maximoff to block it with her chaos magic. However, Harkness was able to absorb it and drained more of Maximoff's life. When White Vision and S.W.O.R.D. arrived at the town square to fight the Maximoffs, Harkness and Maximoff continued their confrontation while the rest of the family split up to face their enemies. 

#### Defeated by Scarlet Witch

 ]]
 
Wanda Maximoff was able to use teleportation to ambush Harkness and subject her to a hallucination, taking them back to her 1693 trial and attempted execution. The corpses of her Salemites victims began to reanimate, but Maximoff's spell backfired as they all recognized her as the Scarlet Witch, prompting them to tie her to the stake instead of Harkness, who repeated her offer to Maximoff about Chaos Magic.
 's powers]]
Emerging out of the hallucination, Maximoff tackled Harkness before blasting her repeatedly with chaos magic, seemingly accepting the bargain. As more of Maximoff's essence was transferred into her, Harkness began to celebrate her apparent victory, before attempting a final energy blast. As no magic emerged from Harkness, Maximoff revealed that her actions were merely a distraction for her to cast protection runes on the walls of the Hex, granting her supreme control of the magic in Westview. Powerless, Harkness could not do anything as Maximoff drained the magic out of her, fully transforming into the Scarlet Witch as depicted in legend.
 
As Scarlet Witch's powers reached an apex, Harkness could only comment in horror about what she had unleashed. The empowered Scarlet Witch revealed that she planned on imprisoning Harkness in Westview as the sitcom character she chose for herself, "Agnes". Harkness pled with Scarlet Witch not to subject her to such a fate, notifying Scarlet Witch that she would need her, but became enthralled anyway, acting as the nosy neighbor like Scarlet Witch planned. As the FBI investigated the aftermath, Agnes flirted with an agent, telling him she needed mouth-to-mouth. 

#### Detective Agnes O'Connor

 
 
Over the next three years, Harkness continued to be under Scarlet Witch's spell as Agnes O'Connor, living in Westview as the nosy neighbor. In 2026, as a result of Scarlet Witch's death, the spell started to break, causing O'Connor to imagine herself as a detective in a crime drama-inspired narrative, with her fellow Westview residents as supporting characters.
 ]]
O'Connor arrived at a crime scene and spoke with Herb Feltman, who explained to her that an unidentified corpse had been discovered. Feltman handed O'Connor a library card that was found and they inspected the body, with O'Connor noticing that the Jane Doe's fingers were blackened. O'Connor looked around and found a locket but kept it to herself. When O'Connor inspected the woman's face, she did not recognize her.
 burnt]] 
O'Connor went to Westview Public Library and asked Dottie Jones for help, giving her the library card found on the corpse. Jones found out that the card belonged to a book called Dialogue and Rhetoric: Known History of Learning & Debate, which was stolen three years ago. O'Connor inspected the section the book belonged to only to find it had been burnt, destroying all copies, as explained by Dennis Webber.
 ]]
Returning to Westview Police Station, O'Connor was informed by Chief Phil Jones that the soil samples from Jane Doe originated from Eastern Europe. They were then joined by Agent Rio Vidal, who Jones explained was here to help on the case. O'Connor was suspicious of Vidal as they discussed the case, with Vidal remarking that the corpse magically appeared. Vidal questioned O'Connor about living in Westview her whole life, causing O'Connor to become uncomfortable and ask Vidal to leave.
 
Continuing her investigation, O'Connor had Norm Gentilucci analyze the locket for her. Gentilucci pieced together that the locket was from New England in the late 17th century. O'Connor returned to the police station and worked into the night, unable to move past the case. She began to write out the first letter of each word in the book's title but was interrupted by Chief Jones, who told her to go home.
 questions O'Connor on her past]]
O'Connor reluctantly returned home, where she mournfully looked inside her son's bedroom. Vidal arrived at O'Connor's house to keep her company, and the two discussed the case. O'Connor revealed her lead to Vidal, but when travel was brought up, O'Connor struggled to think about her past. They returned to talking about the case, but Vidal then asked if O'Connor remembered why she hated her. O'Connor once again struggled to remember and answered that she didn't know. 

#### Stopping an Intruder

 in her house]]
 
O'Connor heard a clatter upstairs, so she rushed to investigate, finding an intruder in her house. She shouted at the intruder, who escaped out the window, so O'Connor chased after him. The intruder was too fast for O'Connor, but she was able to arrest him after he was hit by Mrs. Hart's car.
 about the case]]
O'Connor brought the intruder to the Westview Police Station for interrogation. O'Connor discussed the intruder with Rio Vidal before going to speak with him. The intruder revealed that he knew who O'Connor was, as she questioned what he was after in her house. The intruder claimed he was after the road, which confused O'Connor. She then asked about the murder case, showing him pictures of the crime scene, but the intruder revealed they were just pictures of flowers. As the intruder began to speak in Latin, O'Connor witnessed her environment change around her. 

#### Freeing Herself

 ]]
 
Left rattled from the interrogation, O'Connor drove to the Westview Coroner's Office to examine the corpse. When she entered, she found it empty, but upon closing her eyes and reminding herself about the details of the Jane Doe, the corpse appeared before her. O'Connor noticed the library card on the corpse's toe, and the name "W. Maximoff" appeared on it.
 's spell]]
Rio Vidal joined O'Connor, stating that the case was closed. O'Connor was curious how she died, but Vidal instead stated that the Scarlet Witch was dead, the Darkholds were destroyed, and O'Connor was left trapped in her spell. O'Connor suddenly became unbearably hot and started to remove her clothing, only to find herself dressed in various different outfits that she wore during the Westview Anomaly. Once she got to her final layer as O'Connor, Vidal told her to remember her own name. She looked back at the library card and saw "A. Harkness" appear, finally freeing her from the spell.
 
Harkness found herself back in her house and completely naked. No longer trapped, Harkness let out a pent-up scream and rushed outside. Harkness asked John Collins how long she had been in Westview. Collins told her it had been three years, so Harkness cursed Scarlet Witch's name, although Collins informed her they don't speak her name. Collins revealed what Harkness had been up to and noted that she seemed powerful now, which stood out to Harkness, who went back inside. 

### Reclaiming Her Power

#### Attacked by Rio Vidal

 is gone]]
 
Harkness attempted to use her magic but was unsuccessful, remembering that Scarlet Witch stripped her of her power. Harkness put on a robe and went to her basement, which no longer was her lair. She found Señor Scratchy, and commented on how Scarlet Witch had taken everything from her, and she needed to get back on top.
 ]]
Hearing noises upstairs, Harkness discovered that she had the intruder tied up in her closet. Realizing that he was not a creation of her mind while under the spell, she asked who he was. However, an explosion went off, causing Harkness to be thrown back. Harkness saw that it was Rio Vidal that was responsible, and she quickly protected herself against Vidal's next attack. Holding back her dagger, Harkness remembered who Vidal was and told her she hated her.
 ]]
Vidal asked Harkness how long it had been since they saw each other, recounting how Harkness had acquired the Darkhold, only to now have lost all her magic. Vidal pierced into Harkness chest to make her bleed, but she fought back, forcing the dagger out of Vidal's hands. After scuffling, they both reached for the dagger, which cut into Harkness' palm. Harkness was able to pin Vidal, and they both stated that they couldn't kill each other as per the rules. Vidal gained the upper hand and defeated Harkness.
 not to kill her yet]]
Harkness pleaded to Vidal that it would be better to kill her when she was a more formidable opponent. Vidal offered for Harkness to take her power, but she knew that would kill her. Harkness asked Vidal to let her regain her power; then, they could fight. However, Vidal revealed that there were others that wanted Harkness dead. Vidal agreed to Harkness' request but said she would also be informing the Salem Seven of her location. Vidal told Harkness that her heart still beat for her as she healed her palm wound and left. 

#### Forming a Coven

 ]]
 
Recovering from Rio Vidal's attack, Harkness scurried around her house trying to find something to use. However, the tied-up intruder managed to stand up and use a wall to remove the duct tape from his mouth. He then blurted that he wanted Harkness to take him to the Witches' Road, causing her to stop abruptly.
 about the Road]]
Harkness said the Road didn't exist, but the intruder didn't believe her. Harkness claimed that the Road would kill him, but the intruder rebutted that it hadn't killed her, though Harkness explained that she'd survived because she was exceptional. However, upon learning that the intruder had broken her out of the spell she was under, her interest was piqued.
 
Harkness asked the intruder what his name was, but when he said it, a sigil prevented Harkness from hearing it. Because the intruder could not divulge his name, Harkness decided to condescendingly call him Teen. Harkness then changed her mind and told Teen that they were going to gather a coven and that she was driving. However, she sat down in the makeshift car she had used while enthralled, so she told Teen that he would be driving. Harkness asked Teen what he knew about covens, explaining that they would need to form one to enter the Road. Harkness passed the property that Scarlet Witch lived in, which she spat at in anger.
 driving to find witches]]
In the car, Harkness informed Teen that within any three-mile radius, there would be a group of witchy enough people to form a coven, which intrigued Teen, so he asked Harkness to write that down. Instead of writing her statement in the notebook Teen was pulling out, Harkness grabbed his pen from the glove compartment and threw it out the window, silencing him.
 's reading]]
Their first stop was Madame Calderu's Psychic Readings, an establishment run by Lilia Calderu, their target divination witch. Harkness pretended Teen was her son and that she was trying to find a stash of gold her late husband had hidden. She made Teen pay for a reading, during which Calderu falsely informed Harkness that the gold would be found in her husband's closet. However, the psychic then had a real divination, telling Harkness that she had been a thrall to another for three years.
 ]]
Realizing her ruse was up, Harkness talked to Calderu about the Road and asked her to join her, but Calderu said that no witch in her right mind would join Harkness' coven given her reputation, claiming that she was the reason that people thought witches poisoned apples and ate babies, to which Harkness responded that babies were delicious. Harkness tried to appeal to Calderu by complimenting her, stating she didn't look a day over 450, which only offended Calderu. Harkness tried to persuade Calderu by telling her she could be her old self again, but Calderu still refused.
 to join her]]
However, the divination witch did use her powers to make a list of the witches that would be in Harkness' coven, and to her surprise, her name was on the list. Harkness said it was a sign, and Teen gave Calderu Harkness' address, telling her to be there by five that afternoon. On their way back to the car, Harkness saw a crow on a telephone line, unnerving her. They then drove to their next stop, Kale Kare. Inside, Jennifer Kale, who was their target potions witch and whose magic was bound, was helping some customers, who quickly left when they saw Harkness.
 convince Jennifer Kale]]
Although Kale initially refused to join them on the Road, Teen brought up the lawsuit she was facing, saying she could get life in prison for selling customers bad products. Harkness then reiterated that Kale's magic was bound and that making it to the end of the Road could get her magic back. Teen then gave Kale their address.
 about their next target]]
Teen happily exclaimed that they only had two witches left, but Harkness corrected him, saying they only had one. Teen did not believe her and attempted to grab the list of witches out of her hand, but Harkness stuffed it in her mouth and got in the car. The two then navigated to the Westview Shopping Mall, where Harkness got a corn dog. As she ate, she explained that they were there to recruit the famous Lorna Wu's daughter, who was a blood witch.
 at the shopping mall]]
This excited Teen, who revealed he had been to Wu's band's last tour before she disappeared on the Road. However, Harkness saw a rat scurrying in a corner, causing her to nervously throw away her food and leave. Harkness and Teen went to Hot Topic, where they observed Alice Wu-Gulliver working as a security guard. Harkness slipped an item into Teen's jacket and told him to run towards the door, causing an alarm to go off and causing Wu-Gulliver to trip him.
 ]]
While she was putting his hands behind his back on the ground, Harkness came up to her and explained that she needed a protection witch for the Road, much to Wu-Gulliver's confusion. Wu-Gulliver's boss then came into the store and Harkness claimed that Wu-Gulliver had tackled Teen for no reason. In response, Wu-Gulliver's boss fired her. On her way out, Harkness and Teen came up to her again, with the former claiming that her firing was a sign that she should walk the Road with them.
 ]]
Wu-Gulliver said the Road was a con, so Harkness said that if it was, she could find out what happened to her mother, convincing Wu-Gulliver to meet them. They returned to Harkness' house, where the witches started arriving one by one. Upon Wu-Gulliver's arrival, the group realized they did not have a green witch. Harkness believed from the black heart on the witch list that it was Vidal, but she instead went next door and recruited Sharon Davis, lying that they were having a party. 

#### Unlocking the Gate

 with her coven]]
 
The assembled coven, sans Teen, who Harkness told to stay upstairs, descended to Harkness' basement, where they began singing the Ballad of the Witches' Road to open the gate to the Witches' Road. When no gate appeared, as per her scheme, Harkness blamed her coven and tried to bait them into attacking her so she could steal their power.
 's power]]
As they argued, Sharon Davis pointed out the gate appearing on the floor, which befuddled Harkness. They opened it, revealing that they had been successful. Suddenly, Teen came rushing into the basement, being chased by the Salem Seven and telling them that they should all run as he headed down the staircase to the Road. Lilia Calderu, Jennifer Kale, and Alice Wu-Gulliver quickly followed, but Davis hesitated. Harkness calmly asked what her gut was telling her, so she scurried down the steps as well.
 ]]
Finally, Harkness was the last one remaining, so she went through the gate. At that moment, a member of the Salem Seven crawled down the stairs, horrifying Harkness. She quickly closed the gate behind her and holed up against the wall as the Salem Seven banged against the door. However, the banging soon ceased, and when Harkness looked up, the wooden gate had been replaced with solid rock. She ran her fingers over the rock before descending.
 ]]
Harkness reunited with her coven as they made their way out of a tree and onto the Road, with Harkness looking hesitantly ahead. Finally, they arrived at the beginning of the Road, and Harkness and Teen shared a happy and amazed glance. Harkness then bent down and, along with the rest of the coven, removed her shoes before smiling and saying that she never doubted the coven. With this, she began walking down the Road, and the coven followed. 
 of the rules]]
As they walked the Road, the coven discussed their situation, wondering what they would be up against for their trials. Believing Harkness had already walked the Road, they asked her, so she answered that each trial would test their respective skills. The coven learned of the sigil put on Teen, which Harkness knew nothing about, and returned focus to reaching the end of the Road. After they nearly lost Davis to quicksand, Harkness reminded the coven that the first rule was to never step off of the Road. 

#### Potions Witch Trial

 begin the first trial]]
 
The coven turned around to see a mansion appear on the Witches' Road. They approached the mansion with caution, but Harkness eagerly entered. Once the coven was inside, they noticed their clothes had been changed to resemble a coastal chic style.
 ]]
The first trial began with the coven all drinking a bottle of wine that was provided for them. Harkness secretly poured out her glass into a plant. All of the coven members' faces became swollen except for Harkness, leading them to realize they had been poisoned. The swelling went down, and Jennifer Kale was able to deduce that they had been poisoned by Alewife's Revenge. When Harkness was found out for not drinking, the coven told her she must, but she refused. Teen decided to drink instead, but Harkness stopped him and drank the poison, swelling her face.
 's products]]
Harkness told Kale that she needed to brew an antidote for them, being their potions witch. Kale instructed the coven with ingredients she required, with Harkness and Lilia Calderu retrieving zooplankton in petroleum products for her. All they were able to find were Kale's skin care products, which were supposedly organic, but Harkness suspected otherwise, and decided to call Kale's bluff about her products. The coven all found their items, but noticed that the mansion was now submerged and slowly beginning to fill with water.
 
Kale started brewing the antidote, where Harkness was successful in exposing Kale for her products not being all-natural. As they brewed, Harkness experienced a hallucination, hearing a baby crying, followed by seeing a cradle. But, when she looked inside the cradle, she saw the Darkhold, which devastated Harkness as she broke down in tears, remembering her son. Coming out of the hallucination, they finished the brew, each giving a strand of their hair, but it did not work. Harkness pulled Kale aside and told her that despite always hating her, she respected the work that Kale did.
 ]]
Kale was able to remember the final ingredient, Teen's blood, and they drank the antidote, healing them of the poison. Passing the test, the oven opened up for them to escape as water rushed in, and although Calderu advised them against going in, they decided to anyways. Harkness wanted to leave Sharon Davis, who had lost her motor function due to the poison, behind, but Teen convinced her to carry her out. Returning to the Road, the coven discovered that Davis had died from the poison, but Harkness was unfazed, not remembering her real name. 

#### Summoning the Green Witch

 continue]]
 
Despite the rest of the coven being impacted by the death of Sharon Davis, Harkness ran out of patience and wanted to continue down the Witches' Road. Jennifer Kale reminded Harkness that they needed a green witch, but Harkness argued against this, informing her coven that she was the only witch that made it out of the Road last time.
 ]]
Harkness suggested they summon a new green witch, although Alice Wu-Gulliver and Lilia Calderu were worried something could go wrong. However, Harkness stated that things have already gone wrong, and that they were coven-less witches, so they were meant to break the rules. Using Teen's spell book, Harkness performed an incantation, but was shocked to witness Rio Vidal burst out of Davis' grave. Harkness was enraged to see Vidal and went to attack her, only to be held back by her coven. Harkness stormed off, so Teen went after her, asking about Vidal's presence and wondering whether they were in any danger, but Harkness ignored him. 

#### Protection Witch Trial

 approach the next house]]
 
The coven spotted a Recording Studio, which made Alice Wu-Gulliver turn in the other direction. Harkness went after Wu-Gulliver, who did not want to enter, but the Witches' Road moved the house in front of them, forcing them to go inside.
 in the second trial]]
Once they entered, their clothes were once again changed, now influenced by the 1970s, with Harkness being into how she looked. Rio Vidal leaned into Harkness, but she turned around and sternly rejected Vidal's advances. Harkness looked around and was joined by Vidal again, who said she wanted to cause some damage, but Harkness told Vidal she was too early. When asked about Teen, Harkness moved past the question and instead called for a truce with Vidal, remembering when they were together. Harkness then turned on the microphone so that the rest of the coven could hear Vidal talk about murdering them, allowing Harkness to pretend to care about them.
 's ballad]]
The trial was started when Teen put on a record that played a demonic sound, which Lilia Calderu realized had cursed them all. They witnessed as Calderu and Kale were attacked by the curse, leading Harkness to figure out that Wu-Gulliver was the one who brought the curse with her. After Teen was attacked, Harkness suggested that the solution to stopping the curse was playing Lorna Wu's cover of the Ballad of the Witches' Road. Harkness told Wu-Gulliver that her curse should have killed her, but her mother's song was a protection spell, and they needed to play it to protect them all now. The coven performed the song, with Harkness on vocals, and they were successful at killing the curse, passing the trial, but Teen passed out from his injury.
 ]]
Returning to the Road, Harkness began to panic about Teen, looking to Vidal and telling her not to do anything. Kale was able to heal Teen's wound, and Harkness sat with him as he rested. When Teen woke up, he asked Harkness if she put the sigil on him, however she wouldn't know if she did, explaining that the sigil also affects the witch who casts it, and that it can only be destroyed when it's not needed. Teen asked Harkness what happened to her son, but she did not answer and left.
 is not her son]]
Joining the witches by the campfire, and they asked her to show them her scars, so she talked about her encounter with the Daughters of Liberty. Vidal mentioned she had a scar, which Harkness tried to shut down, but Vidal spoke about how she had to do something she didn't want to which hurt Harkness. Harkness walked away, but Vidal followed her. The two hugged, but when Harkness went to kiss her, Vidal stopped it, telling Harkness that Teen was not her son. 

#### Escaping the Salem Seven

 
 
Harkness detected that the Salem Seven had made it to the Witches' Road and were closing in on the coven, so she told the group that they had to move. Finding themselves surrounded, Teen suggested they us a hexenbesen to escape. Harkness was against the idea, but with no other option, the coven began making their broomsticks. Harkness performed the ritual with Rio Vidal, exchanging broomsticks with her, and the coven took to the skies. However, the Road forced them back down, so they headed for the next trial. 

#### Spirit Witch Trial

 
 
The coven entered a cabin, which changed their clothes into pajamas. Harkness told them that they were safe from the Salem Seven, so all they needed to do was complete the trial. Rio Vidal stated that they were in Harkness' trial, pointing out the blood moon outside. They figured out that they needed to commune to the dead, and Teen found a board, which started the trial.
 communing with the board]]
Teen read out the rules, emphasizing the one about not taunting the dead, which he directed at Harkness. The coven gathered around the board, wondering who from Harkness' past they would be speaking with. Hesitantly, Harkness joined the coven but manipulated the board to make it seem like they were communing with the spirit of Sharon Davis. Harkness pretended to be possessed by Davis, speaking in her voice, but the coven caught on to her act. Vidal called out Harkness for being scared, and she sat back down with the coven to use the board properly. The board said that it was "Death" and that it wanted to punish Harkness.
 ]]
This freaked Harkness out and she begged them to stop the session. Harkness let go of the board, which flew off the table and released the spirit. The coven discussed how they could punish Harkness, figuring that it would end the trial. Harkness pleaded for them to not, but they were determined to follow through. However, Harkness became possessed by her mother, who briefly attacked the coven. Harkness was freed from the possession, joking that she had never felt so close to her mother.
 hates her]]
Evanora told the coven that they must complete the Witches' Road without Harkness, which would be how they punish her. Vidal objected to leaving Harkness with her mother, despite wanting to kill her earlier. Harkness asked her mother why she still hated her, and Evanora stated that Harkness was born evil, and that she wished she had killed her immediately after giving birth to her. Jennifer Kale went to leave, so Harkness begged her coven to not leave her, but she was possessed again by her mother.
 's magic]]
Harkness was freed from her mother's possession by Alice Wu-Gulliver, who began casting her protection Magic at Harkness' body. Once the spirit was removed, Harkness instinctively began to steal Wu-Gulliver's magic, which drained her life away. Teen yelled out Harkness' son's name, which made her stop, and she heard her son cry out for her to stop, too. Harkness saw that she had killed Wu-Gulliver and tried to explain she didn't mean to, but Teen yelled at her, so she left the room and returned to the Road. 

#### Reunited with Billy Maximoff

 's identity]]
 
Harkness channeled Alice Wu-Gulliver's magic, but it quickly died out. Teen angrily chased after Harkness, who claimed she could not control herself. Teen confronted Harkness for wanting to steal her coven's power all along, and stated he had no interest in witches if it meant killing. Harkness laughed and told him that he was so much like his mother, now certain that he was Billy Maximoff.
 ]]
Harkness walked off and ordered Maximoff to follow, but he instead used his powers to control Jennifer Kale and Lilia Calderu, making them throw Harkness off the Witches' Road, where she sank into the ground. Harkness climbed her way out and returned to Maximoff, commenting on his power and how he had been lying to her from the beginning. Harkness revealed that she suspected Maximoff's identity since they met, noting that he had the same tell as his mother.
 's motives]]
After confirming that Maximoff's sigil had been destroyed, Harkness mentioned how he killed Kale and Calderu, which did not bother her. Harkness asked about how Maximoff acquired his new body, but he did not answer, so Harkness told him not to feel guilty about it. Maximoff claimed that he would finish the Road without Harkness, so she questioned what he was actually wanting at the end. Harkness deduced that Maximoff was after his brother. Maximoff decided to continue the Road with Harkness, although he made clear to her that he did not trust her. 
 is dead]]
As they walked the Road, Harkness told Maximoff to ask any questions that he had, so Maximoff asked where Rio Vidal was, but Harkness did not want to answer. Harkness wondered if Maximoff's had any other questions, stating that she was his mother's ex-best friend. Maximoff stated that he would get what he wanted at the end of the Road, although he did ask about whether Scarlet Witch was actually dead. Harkness was unsure, claiming to have seen a body, which was while she was under a spell. 

#### Divination Witch Trial

 see the castle]]
 is a con like any other. There's no magick to it. There's no skill." "That's not true. It's about intuition. Knowing which card to pull. And it's about interpretation, divining their meaning.|Agatha Harkness and Billy Maximoff|Death's Hand in Mine}}
A castle appeared before them, being the next trial, so Harkness began to offer her advice. However, Billy Maximoff was no longer patient with Harkness, and dismissively expressed how he had thought that her experience would be the key to their success. Harkness was offended by this, stating that them still being alive was success. Although, Maximoff simply responded by doubting whether Harkness had even walked the Road before.
 begin the trial]]
The two proceeded inside the castle, where they were transformed to resemble iconic witches in pop culture, with Harkness dressed as the . Harkness claimed that the Wicked Witch was based off of her, although Maximoff continued to be dismissive towards her. They figured out that the trial involved them doing , which Maximoff took the lead on, deciding to do it on Harkness. They sat down, but as Maximoff placed the first card, a sword fell from the ceiling. They looked up and saw that the entire ceiling had swords dangling above them.
 
As Maximoff continued, another sword dropped, so Harkness decided to take control, declaring that there was no magic in Tarot. Harkness began aggressively placing random cards on the table, causing swords to drop each time. They argued about the trial, with Harkness suggesting they try every card until they're successful. However, the ceiling began to lower. At that moment, Lilia Calderu and Jennifer Kale arrived, so Harkness alerted them to the swords. Harkness and Kale watched as Calderu took over, using Maximoff as the subject.
 ]]
However, swords still fell, including one that was going to hit Calderu, so Harkness quickly tackled her out of danger. After Calderu took a moment to collect herself, she reattempted the Tarot, but now on herself. As Calderu placed the cards, the ceiling continued to lower, forcing them all to crouch down with only seconds left until they were killed. Harkness placed the final card for Calderu, completing the trial. Calderu realized that Rio Vidal was Death, which Harkness confirmed. The Salem Seven arrived, so they escaped from the castle. Calderu told Harkness to drop to the ground after being called a coward. 

#### Making a Deal

 on the Road]]
 
Returning to the Witches' Road, Harkness was confronted by Rio Vidal, who addressed the deaths within her coven. Harkness told Vidal that she had delivered on her promise to give her more bodies to collect, but Vidal revealed that she knew it was just to distract her from Billy Maximoff.
 ]]
Vidal stated that Maximoff's presence disrupted the sacred balance, and that she knew how Harkness felt about him. Harkness attempted to brush off this claim, but Vidal knew Harkness too well, and called her out for walking the Road with Scarlet Witch's son, which upset Harkness. Vidal told Harkness that no one else in history had received special treatment like she had, although Harkness refuted this, feeling that Vidal had only taken from her. Harkness attempted to walk away, but Vidal stopped her, asking why Harkness let people believe the rumors about Nicholas Scratch, which Harkness said was because it was better than the truth.
 ]]
Returning to Maximoff, Vidal told Harkness that what he wanted from the Road was a violation, elaborating that his brother was not out there, but Maximoff could bring him back, so she had to stop it. Harkness figured out that Vidal couldn't take Maximoff's life as he could reincarnate, so she needed him to turn himself over. Harkness decided to deliver Maximoff to Vidal in exchange for Vidal leaving her alone, and that when she eventually died, she would not see Vidal's face. Vidal agreed to the deal and walked away from Harkness. 

#### Green Witch Trial

 return to the start of the Road]]
 
Harkness regrouped with Billy Maximoff and Jennifer Kale, telling them that they needed to finish the Witches' Road. Maximoff brought up how they didn't have their Green Witch, but Harkness thought they would be fine. As Harkness hyped up the next trial, she tripped over the shoes they left at the beginning. Harkness was angered at this being the end, yelling at Maximoff for not knowing how to get out. Harkness decided to continue forwards, but when Maximoff put his shoes on, he disappeared.
 inside of the Green Witch Trial]]
The three appeared in the next trial inside of body bags. Once they got out, they saw that the room resembled her basement, which had grow lights on the ceiling, making them think they had to grow something. As the countdown commenced, Harkness noticed Kale was calm, so she explained that she was thinking about how she could save Harkness and Maximoff. Harkness taunted Kale about having no magic, and when Kale talked about her past, they realized that Harkness was the one that bound her.
 unbinds herself]]
Kale was furious with Harkness, so she ripped out a piece of Harkness' hair and used it to begin the unbinding ritual. At first, Harkness was snarky towards Kale as she performed the ritual, but she soon became uncomfortable, seeing how she had hurt Kale. They then witnessed Kale reclaim her magic shortly before vanishing. Maximoff wondered where she went, so Harkness explained that the Road had given Kale what she wanted, therefore she no longer needed to be there.
 ]]
Harkness bluntly told Maximoff that the trial could end for her if he let her absorb his power. However, Maximoff believed that Harkness would take all of his magic, killing him. Understanding that she couldn't betray Maximoff, Harkness decided to help him, telling him to sit down so that they could find his brother. Harkness revealed that Tommy wasn't in a body to be found, but Maximoff could bring him back to life, even though he didn't know how he did it the first time.
 find his brother]]
The two sat down together and Harkness guided Maximoff through his last memory with Tommy. As Maximoff described his memory, Harkness helped him locate Tommy within himself so that he could then put him in a new body. Maximoff was able to find a body of a boy that was being drowned. Maximoff began to panic, wondering if he was killing this boy so his brother could live. At that moment, Maximoff vanished, having been successful, leaving Harkness, who noted that sometimes boys died.
 ]]
Now alone and with the countdown nearly done, Harkness held her locket and took out her son's hair she kept in it. Harkness then noticed a dandelion seed in her locket, realizing that the trial required her to create life out of death. After holding the seed to a tear in her eye, she planted it in the dirt that appeared through the crack, and it bloomed right before time ran out. Dirt began to fill the room, so Harkness rushed to the doors, demanding to be let out of the Road. 

#### Facing Death

 
 
Harkness escaped from the Witches' Road, bringing her to the front yard of her house, where she saw Death sitting on her roof cackling. Harkness discovered that her powers had not been returned to her, making her scream out that she wanted her prize for walking the Road.
 ]]
Death reminded Harkness that she was also owed something, so Harkness claimed that she got Billy Maximoff out of the Road, as agreed upon. But because Maximoff did not surrender himself, Death then decided to take Harkness instead, choosing to kill her with a thousand cuts. Death used her powers to blast shards of glass at Harkness, covering her entire body in cuts. Spotting the Moon, Harkness was reminded of Alice Wu-Gulliver, resulting in her creating a protection circle, but Death destroyed it.
 by Wiccan]]
Upon hearing Death call her a coward, Harkness remembered what Lilia Calderu told her and she dropped to the ground, dodging Death's attack. Harkness then filled her hands with water and attempted to heal herself like Jennifer Kale did for Maximoff, but she was restrained by vines under Death's control. Death approached a helpless Harkness to kill her only to be saved when Maximoff arrived, throwing Death aside. Harkness remarked on Maximoff's outfit as Wiccan, saying that he looked good.
 ]]
Wiccan replied that she did not look good, and decided to give her his power, asking her to not take all of it and kill him. As Harkness absorbed Wiccan's power, she was able to free herself from her binds before levitating off the ground. Regaining her power, Harkness transformed into her witch attire and stopped absorbing Wiccan's power before it killed him. Death returned, stating that only one of them needed to go with her and the other could walk away. However, Harkness decided to fight Death.
 
Harkness and Death battled each other, with Death commenting on how much Harkness enjoyed having her power back. Harkness was knocked down by Death, so Wiccan came to her rescue, blasting Death away again. Wiccan went to check on Harkness, who acknowledged that they could not defeat Death. Harkness decided that she would sacrifice herself to Death, and she told Wiccan that he was not bad. Wiccan returned the sentiment, which Harkness noted that he was the only one that did not think she was bad.
 to Death]]
When Death got back up, Wiccan bravely offered himself to her. Despite what she said just moments ago, Harkness stood up and went along with Wiccan's decision, letting Death take him, shocking Wiccan. Harkness heartlessly walked away from Wiccan, casually telling Death to fix her house when she was finished. Visibly hurt, Wiccan questioned Harkness' betrayal, so she repeated his words earlier about her being a coven-less witch, before laughing and walking away.
 ]]
Before she could leave, Wiccan spoke to Harkness in her mind, asking her if this was how Nicholas Scratch died. This completely stopped Harkness, who then reflected how she had come to view Wiccan like her son due to how much he reminded her of Scratch. Harkness turned around and kissed Death, absorbing her power, which was fatal for her, resulting in her falling backwards as she died. As her body immediately decayed, it blended into the ground, sprouting mushrooms and other plants. 

### Spirit Guide

#### Haunting Billy Maximoff

 form]]
 
Due to not wanting to see Nicholas Scratch in the afterlife, Harkness was able to remain on Earth as a ghost. She then decided to surprise Billy Maximoff, appearing behind him to give him a scare. Maximoff was in disbelief about seeing Harkness, who excitedly laughed about now being a ghost. Harkness claimed that she did not sacrifice herself for Maximoff but took a calculated risk. Still getting a grasp on being a ghost, Harkness tried to slap Maximoff, only for her hands to go through him.
 ]]
Maximoff asked if he created the Witches' Road, so Harkness answered that unlike Scarlet Witch, he did something interesting with his powers, stating that the Ballad was fake, but he made the Road real. Feeling responsible for Alice Wu-Gulliver, Lilia Calderu, and Sharon Davis' deaths, Maximoff began to spiral, so Harkness informed him that he saved Jennifer Kale, but also that he would need to get used to what he was feeling if he wanted to be a witch.
 in her home]]
Harkness followed Maximoff back to the basement of her house, where the door to the Road remained. Harkness questioned Maximoff on what he was doing and mentioned that he possessed her locket, but he ignored her, and instead created a pentagram on top of the door. When Maximoff pulled out Harkness' locket, she asked for it back. But Maximoff began to chant an incantation, revealing that he was banishing her, which stunned Harkness.
 ]]
Harkness doubted Maximoff's ability to banish her to the afterlife, but he brought up how he freed her from Scarlet Witch's spell. Harkness attempted to laugh off Maximoff's attempt, but soon became scared as she began to fade away, desperately begging him to stop. Maximoff asked why Harkness why she wouldn't die, and she told him that she couldn't face her son. Harkness reached for her locket, and was able to become tangible, knocking it out of Maximoff's hand. 

#### Search for Tommy Maximoff

 ]]
 
Harkness picked up her locket and pinned it to her collar. Billy Maximoff tried to comfort Harkness, telling her that Nicholas Scratch would forgive her for what she did. Harkness turned to Maximoff and told him that he reminded her of her son.
 stand together]]
Maximoff acknowledged Harkness being able to touch physical objects, so she remarked about being a quick learner. Maximoff commented that being a ghost suited Harkness, and invited her to become his spirit guide. Harkness agreed to them becoming a team, although noting that she had a history of killing her coven members, which Maximoff did as well. After Maximoff removed the door to the Witches' Road, Harkness stood alongside him, and the two ventured to find Tommy Maximoff. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
*Magic: Agatha Harkness is a very powerful witch capable of manipulating magic for a variety of effects, such as casting spells and manipulating matter. She was very knowledgeable in her magic and even taught Wanda Maximoff a few skills like how to create a rune.
**Witchcraft: Witchcraft is a form of magic that is practiced and utilized by all witches, Agatha's magic, while naturally purple, became a darker shade along with it gaining a black mist within it due to Dark Magic's corruptive influence.
***Magical Energy Manipulation: ]] Harkness is able to shape her dark and mystical energy into tangible constructs and utilize it in various ways. When initially confronting Wanda Maximoff, she conjured magical bindings around her wrists and ankles to restrain her. Similarly, she was able to conjure magical strings to hold Billy Maximoff and Tommy Maximoff by their necks. After unintentionally killing Alice Wu-Gulliver and absorbing her magic, Harkness's magic manifested a bright orange for a moment before quickly dissipating.
****Energy Projection: Harkness could project powerful bolts and blasts of purple mystical energy from her hands. After absorbing the Chaos Magic from Maximoff's energy bolts, she was able to fire projectiles made of Chaos Magic and her Dark Magic combined.
****Energy Detection: Harkness was initially drawn to the Westview Anomaly after sensing the "afterglow" of its complex network of spells.
****Telekinesis: Harkness could control matter with her purple energy and was able to close a door with a single movement of her fingers as well as break energy binds placed on her by her coven during her trial. During her confrontation with Maximoff, she lifted several S.W.O.R.D. operatives a few stories into the air, outlining them with purple energy, before dropping them and letting Maximoff catch them with her own power.
****Levitation: Harkness arrived flying to Westview. When she was knocked over by Maximoff's energy blast, she was able to raise herself back onto her feet. She was able to fly at length during her confrontation against Scarlet Witch, and even managed to remain floating in the air despite the runes created by Scarlet Witch which had rendered Harkness' other magical attacks ineffective.
***Mental Manipulation: ]] Harkness's magic allows her to interact with and control the minds of others. She was able to make Herb Feltman, her neighbor, go along with her plan in confusing Vision. She was also able to control her pet Señor Scratchy and take control of a cicada with an incantation while demonstrating magic to Maximoff. She was able to project images of her exploits within Westview into Maximoff's mind and, when inside an illusory recreation of Maximoff's memories, was able to cause Maximoff to directly relive the experiences as well as pull her out of them at will. When Maximoff tried to trap her in an illusion of her trial by her coven, Harkness was able to turn the illusion against her, causing the corpses of her fellow witches to attack and briefly subdue Maximoff. In an attempt to turn the town of Westview on Maximoff, Harkness removed Maximoff's mind control from the citizens.
***Psychic Shield: Harkness is able to resist telepathic intrusion and reality manipulation to a degree, as she was able to live inside the Westview Anomaly without it truly changing her or affecting her mind. Additionally, neither Billy nor Wanda Maximoff were able to sense her thoughts, with the latter's attempts to trap Harkness in an illusion failing to harm or restrain her, as Harkness simply took control over it away from Maximoff. However, Billy was later able to break this shield and telepathically communicate with Harkness.
***Spell Casting: her past]] Harkness could cast a variety of spells using gestures and verbal incantations. Using a basic protection spell via magic runes on the walls of the structure beneath her house, Harkness was able to neutralize Maximoff's powers. As she explains to Maximoff, only the person who cast this spell can use magic in the radius of the protection spell's range. Harkness caused Maximoff to relive her memories using magic via a piece of her hair, which aided her in creating an illusory space inside a compartment of her basement lair that could realistically simulate events and locations from Wanda's past. She also chanted a Latin spell that allowed her to trans-mutate a cicada into a bird. While escaping the Salem Seven, she performed a ritual to create a broomstick, giving it the ability to fly.
****Power Binding: Harkness was able to cast a powerful binding spell on Jennifer Kale, leaving her unable to use magic for 100 years.
***Transmutation: Harkness was able to change her appearance and witch costume for that of a normal neighbor. She was also able to change a cicada into a bird and back and hide the corruption of the Darkhold in her fingers.
***Conjuration: ]] Harkness was capable of causing the Darkhold to materialize out of a small purple portal to read the description of Maximoff's future as the Scarlet Witch before sending it back through it.
***Enchantment: Harkness is capable of imbuing objects with supernatural powers, notably creating an enchanted necklace with a crystallum possession spell that allowed her to control Ralph Bohner, giving him the personality of a false Pietro Maximoff, as well as simulating the real Pietro's super speed. Additionally, the roots surrounding her basement lair were infused with her Witchcraft, as seen by Monica Rambeau.
***Teleportation: Harkness has the ability to teleport herself and others, leaving a distinctive purple energy each time she uses this ability. She was able to teleport from within the Vision Residence to the street, and at the same time bring Billy and Tommy Maximoff from the basement of her house.
**Necromancy: Harkness mentioned being able to use necromancy when she said she considered resurrecting the real Pietro, but gave up because his body was on another continent and bullet-ridden.
**Dark Magic: As a master of the Dark Arts, Agatha was a very powerful and skilled user of dark magic. According to Harkness, some of her dark powers took years of study to master. After obtaining the Darkhold, Harkness used it to amplify her powers, which enhanced several of her spells allowing her to be unnoticed by other witches, like Wanda Maximoff. 
***Physical Augmentation: After acquiring the Darkhold, Harkness could heighten her physical abilities. During the Battle of Westview, she was easily able to withstand being hit by a car by Wanda Maximoff.
***Power Absorption: Harkness can absorb powers; assimilating supernatural abilities and powers directly from others even straight from the source, removing into herself and utilize it in various ways, enhancing herself with each new power drain expanding her arsenal of abilities. When Harkness was on trial she was capable of corrupting the magic from the witches of her coven, effectively siphoning their energies and killing them. Her abilities allowed her to absorb and convert Chaos Magic from Maximoff into her dark magic while simultaneously draining Maximoff's body of life each time Maximoff directly attacked her with her powers, allowing her to not only withstand Maximoff's attacks but also gain strength from them. Though, there is a caveat to this. In order to absorb an individual's power, Harkness specifically must be blasted by them and cannot remotely drain the power of others, and according to herself, she can't control this power properly. When Alice Wu-Gulliver used her powers to free Harkness from Evanora Harkness's ghost, the latter unwittingly absorbed Wu-Gulliver's powers, killing her. When Billy Maximoff willingly wanted her to absorb his powers, she was able to stop abosrbing it before it killed him, only taking enough to recover her long lost magic.
****Life-Force Absorption: A side effect of absorbing powers from other individual is that she also absorbs their life force too, allowing her to heal and live for far longer than a normal human.
*****Regenerative Healing Factor: Harkness can use the energy she absorbs to heal herself. After being fatally wounded by Death, she was able to absorb Wiccans projection of energy and use it to heal herself from her cuts.
*****Longevity: With the magic and life-force she absorbed from the witches of her coven, Harkness can live far beyond a normal human lifespan, having survived for more than 350 years.
 
*Ghost Physiology: After Harkness was killed by death she was turned into a ghost, she became tied to Earth by emotions. Being a ghost, Harkness possess several supernatural abilities, such as invisibility, intangibility and teleportation.
**Intangibility: Harkness has the ability to become intangible, this allows her to phase to various different objects.
**Invisibility: Harkness has the ability to make her ghostly body completely transparent and invisible to others.
**Teleportation: As a ghost, Harkness possess the ability to teleport, as she did from Billy's room to the basement of Ralph's house.

### Abilities

 
*Expert Tactician: Harkness was able to manipulate events within the Westview Anomaly for a week, right down to the plots of the sitcom, all while pretending to be enthralled by Wanda Maximoff and hiding her true nature. She was able to break Maximoff's character when she purposely asked her if she could retake the shot for the show. She also willingly revealed her identity to Maximoff in order to get in her head and find out how she made the Hex.
*Marksman: Harkness can effectively throw magical energy at her target, demonstrated in her aerial battle against Wanda Maximoff.
*Bilingualism: Harkness is fluent in English and speaks Latin when performing magical incantations. Once Lilia Calderu escaped her hallucination during the Potions Witch Trial, she began frantically speaking Sicilian, and Harkness appeared to be able to understand her.

## Equipment

### Former Equipment

 
*Darkhold: As a master of the Dark Arts, Harkness eventually obtained the Darkhold, which she used as an amplification totem for her powers. WANDAVISION'S CREATIVE TEAM DISCUSSES THE DARKHOLD, THE SCARLET WITCH, AND FAN THEORIES Harkness learned of the Scarlet Witch myth thanks to the book. She lost it to Wanda Maximoff.

## Facilities

 
*Agnes O'Connor's House: In her disguise as Agnes and Maximoff's neighbor, she resided in Bohner's house and added a basement where she kept the Darkhold.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Evanora Harkness † - Mother, Coven Leader, Attempted Killer, and Victim
*Nicholas Scratch † - Son

### Allies

*Doctor
*Señor Scratchy - Pet
*Agatha Harkness' Coven - Teammates
**Billy Maximoff/Wiccan - Former Neighbor, Former Prisoner, Attempted Victim, Former Protégé, and Attempted Killer
**Lilia Calderu †
**Jennifer Kale
**Alice Wu-Gulliver † - Accidental Victim
**Sharon Davis † - Former Thrall
*Westview Police Department
*John Collins - Former Thrall
 

### Enemies

*Salemites - Former Teammates, Attempted Killers, and Victims
*Salem Seven - Attempted Killers
**Vertigo †
**Owl †
**Snake †
**Fox †
**Coyote †
**Crow †
**Rat †
*Death/Rio Vidal/Green Witch - Former Lover, Attempted Victim, and Killer
*Daughters of Liberty
*Dolly Parton
*Wanda Maximoff/Scarlet Witch † - Former Neighbor, Former Thrall, Attempted Victim, and Former Enthraller
*Vision † - Neighbor
*Sparky † - Victim
*Tommy Maximoff - Neighbor and Former Prisoner
*White Vision
*Westview Citizens - Former Thralls
**Ralph Bohner - Acting Husband
**Dennis Webber
**Harold Proctor
**Sarah Proctor
**Isabel Matsueda
**Abilash Tandon
*S.W.O.R.D.
**Monica Rambeau
**Rodriguez
*Tyler Hayward
*Wu Family Curse †
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
!Appearances for Agatha Harkness 
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (footage) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
* 
* 
* (photo) 
* (photo; flashbacks) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* (ghost) 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Agatha Harkness is a witch who lived through the fall of Atlantis and the . She was a mentor to Scarlet Witch and the babysitter of Franklin Richards. In the Ultimate Universe, she was a foe of the Ultimate Fantastic Four, able to split from one individual to seven.
*Agnes' fake marriage anniversary with her husband Ralph (June 2nd), references June 2nd 1692, the day the Salem witch trials began.
*In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Agatha Harkness was the inspiration behind Dolly Parton's 1973 hit "Jolene", and was even slapped by the country music star in 1972. 
*Harkness' outfit on the Witches' Road is meant to symbolize a crow, having many details like the end of the coat looking like a tail. Additionally, inside the coat, there are runes. 
* Kathryn Hahn stated in a German interview that Agatha loves whoever she loves regardless of gender, indicating that she is attracted to multiple genders. Kathryn Hahn feiert im Interview zu Agatha All Along den queeren Twist der Marvel-Serie 

## Behind the Scenes

*Kathryn Hahn was secretly informed since the beginning that she would be playing Agatha Harkness in WandaVision. To prepare for the role, Hahn read some comic books featuring her character and saw other movies of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Kathryn Hahn Reacts to WandaVision’s "Agatha All Along" Topping the iTunes Charts 
*In the early development stages of WandaVision, Harkness served more like a mentor figure towards Wanda Maximoff, but the crew realized that making her a proper antagonist would serve the show's structure well as they legitimately broke the episodes. The possibility of Harkness wanting Maximoff's powers to bring her mother back was also explored. 'WandaVision' Creator on Agatha's Master Plan, That Ralph Bohner Reveal and White Vision (Exclusive) Back when Harkness was planned to be Maximoff's mentor, she was going to teach her early on a binding spell Maximoff would use while saying goodbye for the last time to Vision in the final episode. The Oral History of ‘WandaVision’ 
*Whitney Coleman, Athena Perample and Mary Pat Letourneau were stunt doubles for Kathryn Hahn in the role of Agatha Harkness.

## References

 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 

es:Agatha Harkness
fr:Agatha Harkness
pt-br:Agatha Harkness
ru:Агата Харкнесс

Category:Characters
Category:WandaVision Characters
Category:Agatha All Along Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Ghosts
Category:Females
Category:Brown Hair
Category:Gray Hair
Category:Blue Eyes
Category:Purple Eyes
Category:Witches
Category:Spirit Witches
Category:Serial Killers
Category:Salemites Members
Category:Agatha Harkness' Coven Leaders
Category:LGBTQIA+ Characters
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Brainwashed Characters
Category:High Body Count
Category:Deceased Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Death