|vehicles = Hydra Mini Tank Schnellzug EB912 Leviathan Insight Helicarriers (formerly, destroyed) Jump Jet Helicopter Quinjet Hydra QuadCopter}}
|headquarters = 
|locations = Worldwide
|affiliation = (formerly) (formerly; in secret) 
* (formerly; in secret) 
 (formerly; in secret) 
 (formerly; in secret) 
 (formerly; in secret) 
 (formerly; in secret) 
 (formerly; in secret) 
Confederacy (formerly) 
|movie = Captain America: The First Avenger The Avengers (mentioned) Captain America: The Winter Soldier Avengers: Age of Ultron Ant-Man Captain America: Civil War Spider-Man: Homecoming (mentioned; deleted scene) Ant-Man and the Wasp (mentioned) Avengers: Endgame (mentioned) Spider-Man: Far From Home (mentioned) Black Widow (mentioned) Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (mentioned) Deadpool & Wolverine (footage) Thunderbolts* (mentioned) 
|tv series = Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Carter WandaVision (flashback) The Falcon and The Winter Soldier (flashback) What If...? (recap) She-Hulk: Attorney at Law (logo) Secret Invasion (mentioned) 
|web series = WHiH Newsfront (mentioned) 
|game = Captain America: Super Soldier Captain America: The First Avenger - Wield the Shield
|comic = Captain America: First Vengeance Captain America: The First Avenger Adaptation The Avengers Prelude: Fury's Big Week The Avengers: The Avengers Initiative The Avengers (mentioned) Avengers: Operation Hydra Avengers: Age of Ultron Prelude - This Scepter'd Isle Ant-Man Prelude Captain America: Civil War Prelude Captain America: Road to War Captain America: Civil War Prelude Infinite Comic (flashbacks) Spider-Man: Homecoming Prelude (mentioned) Avengers: Infinity War Prelude (flashback & mentioned) Ant-Man and the Wasp Prelude Thunderbolts* Dossier (mentioned) 
|book = Avengers: Infinity War: The Heroes' Journey The Wakanda Files: A Technological Exploration of the Avengers and Beyond Look Out for the Little Guy! (indirectly mentioned) 
|status = Defunct}} 
 
Hydra (sometimes stylized as HYDRA) was a global authoritarian-subversive paramilitary terrorist organization. It was founded in ancient times as a cult dedicated to the fanatical worship of Hive, a powerful Inhuman that was exiled to the planet Maveth by ancient Inhumans. Ever since his banishment, his followers were determined to bring him back to Earth.

Over the centuries, the cult evolved, taking many forms, with its most prominent incarnation coming into existence shortly after the rise of Nazism in Germany under the leadership of Johann Schmidt as the scientific branch of the Nazis' Schutzstaffel. It was during this time that the cult took on the name Hydra, which soon became the organization's most colloquial label. During World War II, Schmidt separated Hydra from Nazi Germany to start his own conquest of the world, and it was during or before this time when Hydra had seemingly abandoned the cult's original beliefs. Converting from occultism to draconian anti-freedom principles, Hydra became an organization with a hell-bent nature that is dedicated to this newfound political doctrine.

After its defeat at the hands of Captain America in 1945 and the subsequent disappearance of Johann Schmidt, Hydra was secretly rebuilt inside S.H.I.E.L.D. by Schmidt's top scientist Arnim Zola, who was recruited into the agency during Operation Paperclip and also formed an alliance with the Soviet Union. Though Zola's body died in 1972, Hydra was already well established, and Zola's mind continued to live in a computer. In the following decades, Hydra orchestrated crises and planted roots worldwide; establishing a clandestine network of operatives engaged in political engineering and scientific research. 

Hydra's endgame was the overthrow of world governments to establish a fascist, totalitarian global state; thus preemptively eliminating potential threats to their new world order. Members who still followed the original beliefs of Hydra took part in this as a means of smoothly and immediately transferring control of a groomed Earth to their Inhuman idol. New members for the organization were acquired from disenfranchised members of S.H.I.E.L.D., as well as children born to already established members, which were indoctrinated from childhood in facilities run by Hydra and assigned into different roles by the leadership.

By the end of the 20th century, operatives of Hydra had managed to spread outside of S.H.I.E.L.D., infiltrating many important organizations, including the United States Government and the World Security Council, eventually establishing many secret bases around the world. One of Hydra's top agents in S.H.I.E.L.D., John Garrett, secretly led the Centipede Project, with the goal to recreate the Super Soldier. In 2014, Hydra's plans for world domination almost succeeded through their agent Alexander Pierce and S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Project Insight. However, their plan to eliminate 20 million people who posed a threat to Hydra failed because of the efforts of Hydra's oldest enemy, Captain America, who publicly exposed their infiltration of S.H.I.E.L.D. and destroyed their main tool of destruction, three of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Helicarriers, with Alexander Pierce being killed by S.H.I.E.L.D.'s former director Nick Fury in the process. However, Hydra leader Baron Strucker already had new plans for global domination, which included twins declared "miracles" and the Scepter.

With its existence publicly known, Hydra started a war against the remnants of S.H.I.E.L.D., taking over many S.H.I.E.L.D. bases. For many months, Hydra's forces led by John Garrett fought a vicious fight against the small team of loyal S.H.I.E.L.D. agents led by Phil Coulson. Despite its attempt to infiltrate the U.S. Armed Forces through Ian Quinn and the Deathlok Soldiers, Garrett's group was ultimately defeated through the combined efforts of former S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury, Coulson's team, and the U.S. Marines.

However, even that defeat was only a temporary setback for Hydra. S.H.I.E.L.D. was destroyed and publicly declared a terrorist organization, and many Hydra agents continued with their work, including the high-ranking member Daniel Whitehall, who used the fall of S.H.I.E.L.D. to start the campaign to recover the Obelisk. However, the campaign ended disastrously for Hydra. Whitehall was killed before he could fully exploit the Obelisk, his second-in-command Sunil Bakshi was captured, and many other heads of Hydra were killed by Hydra itself when S.H.I.E.L.D. fooled them into thinking that there was a power struggle within Hydra's ranks. Two of the remaining heads of Hydra, Baron Strucker and Doctor List, continued with their experiments on powered individuals. However, even their experiments came to an end when the Avengers attacked Strucker's fortress in Sokovia, killing List and capturing Baron Strucker, who was later killed by the rogue A.I. Ultron. Strucker's demise marked the end of Hydra's militaristic and scientific factions, allowing for its more ancient roots to take control.

Two of the few remaining Hydra leaders, Grant Ward and Gideon Malick, joined forces to rebuild Hydra, destroy S.H.I.E.L.D., and bring Hive back to Earth. Despite Ward's death on Maveth by the hands of Coulson, Malick's plan succeeded because Hive took possession of Ward's body and returned to Earth in his reanimated corpse. Hive slowly began taking control of some Inhumans, and at the same time, took over the leadership of Malick's cell, which ended with Malick's death caused by Daisy Johnson. Hive eventually left Hydra to seemingly perish in the military campaign led by Brigadier General Glenn Talbot, before Hive himself was killed by Lincoln Campbell, severing the final major head of Hydra.

Loyal to its oath, Hydra survived even that defeat. A single cell led by the US Air Force officer General R. Hale continued its hunt for S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, and at the same time worked to save humanity from a threat from space. Despite making a deal with the alien Confederacy, Hale hoped to transform her daughter into the strongest person on Earth in order to force them to alter the deal. However, S.H.I.E.L.D., whose core members had seen what appeared to be the catastrophic consequences of this project, intervened in her plans and even the prospect of ensuring the safety of humanity could not unite the two organizations as Hale had hoped. Hale was killed by an insane Glenn Talbot, putting an end to her Hydra faction.

Other small Hydra cells like Hale's continued to operate, albeit being a mere fraction of Hydra's original scope and power. Bucky Barnes, a former brainwashed Hydra assassin, assisted the American government in apprehending some of the final members of the once-powerful organization.

## History

### Hydra Society

#### Foundation

 
More than five thousand years ago, a rogue faction of Kree came to Earth, seeking to create an army of super soldiers. They conducted experiments on humans, becoming the progenitors of the Inhuman race. The first of these Inhumans, Alveus, or "Hive," was intended to command the Kree's army. Hive's ambitions went higher, however, and he rebelled against his creators, leading the other Inhumans in an insurgency and driving the Kree from Earth.

The other Inhumans grew weary of Hive's power, however, and allied with some of the humans Hive intended to subjugate, banishing him through a Kree Monolith to a distant planet. 

Hive had managed to cultivate a strong cult of personality with certain humans who worshiped him as a god. Believing he was destined to conquer the Earth, these disciples established a secret society dedicated to bringing him back and, in the meantime, destabilizing Earth so that the world would be ready for him when he did return.

Over the millennia, the society grew and evolved, taking many different shapes and being called by many different names. Eventually, the society came in possession of the Monolith and started sending men through the portal, hoping to save or at least serve their leader on the other side. But none of them ever came back. As its symbols changed, the society became known as Hydra, with its final and best-known symbol being inspired by the Inhuman's true form. Agents of SHIELD: The Hunt for Lash, Hive's Powers and 8 more teasers 

#### Centuries of Attempts

 
The story of Hydra's attempts to bring their leader back to Earth was eventually spread through the world, influencing groups obsessed with death and ritualistic killings, becoming intertwined with the origin of pagan devil myths. Their initial symbol was one for a sacrificial ram. 
 
In 1839 at Gloucestershire, England, a group of Hydra members assembled in a castle to have a lottery. He who grabbed the white stone from the bag was to enter the room housing the Monolith. Lord Manzini grabbed the white stone and was sent into the room with a few weapons and some equipment. The portal opened and swallowed Manzini who was never seen again. Apparently, he was but one of many to be sent as a sacrifice. Hydra's best minds were employed to understand how the Monolith functions, but they never gathered enough data to bring anyone back.

Eventually, Hydra's scientists managed to construct a machine that could create powerful vibrations. In the late 1800s, they put the Monolith in a hole in the floor and activated the machine, turning the Monolith into its liquid form, creating a stable portal. For some reason, the castle and the machine were abandoned. Five smaller pieces were cut off from the Monolith and given for safekeeping to the most powerful leaders of Hydra. 

### Hydra-Abteilung

#### In Hitler's Shadow

 
When the Nazis came to power in Germany, Johann Schmidt, secretly a member of the ancient Hydra society, attempted to join the special weapons division of the Sturmabteilung led by Ernst Kaufmann so he could work on developing advanced weapons for the Wehrmacht. However, he was violently rejected and instead joined Schutzstaffel. Captain America: First Vengeance 
 and the Super Soldier Serum]]
In 1931, Abraham Erskine was already working on a Super Soldier Serum for Hydra. A key ingredient for the serum was given to a Hydra member in the United States of America, Wilfred Malick, and he was tasked to deliver it to Germany by Viola. After the serum was provided, Malick became an influential member in Hydra. 

In June 1934, during the Night of the Long Knives, Kaufmann and his entire unit was eliminated by Schmidt's SS troops, sparing Arnim Zola. Schmidt took over Kaufmann's weapons program and formed his own research division, naming it Hydra-Abteilung, which would be a new incarnation of the Hydra society under his leadership. The new unit was formed with the official approval of the Nazi Führer, Adolf Hitler. The text on the Hydra stamp says: Hydra Abteilung, durch Verabredung des Führers - Hydra division, by appointment of the Führer 
 studying Hydra's history]]
Hydra-Abteilung was named after the mythological creature and used its original phrase: "cut off one head, two more will take its place". It was soon charged with science experiments and deep investigation of the occult. Due to contributions from Zola, Hydra developed several extremely advanced weapons. 

When the started in 1936, the leaders of the decided to support the led by . Hydra was among the German units sent by Adolf Hitler to assist the Nationalists on the battlefield.

In April 1937, Hydra's tanks and soldiers equipped with powerful exo-skeleton battle suits destroyed the city of Guernica. At the time, it was believed the German air force, the , was responsible for the destruction of the city. However, the footage of the slaughter was smuggled out of Germany by Peggy Carter and handed over to the United States Armed Forces in January 1940. 

#### World War II Begins

 ]]
 
In 1939, World War II broke out and Hydra actively participated in the Nazi conquest of Europe. Though the United States of America were not yet involved in the war, Johann Schmidt knew that was only temporary. In 1940, Hydra assassins attempted to kill the American industrialist Howard Stark, but with the help of Chester Phillips, Stark was able to survive, and decided to join the Strategic Scientific Reserve. 

That November, at Castle Kaufmann in the , Schmidt injected himself with Abraham Erskine's Super Soldier Serum. He expected to become the superior man, but the unstable serum disfigured his face and turned him into a super strong megalomaniac villain. Erskine escaped with the help of Peggy Carter, Phillips, and Stark. 
 
Adolf Hitler gave Schmidt a military base in the Alps, which he turned into a headquarters of Hydra. Over time, Hydra members became more loyal to Schmidt than the . Hydra then began building several factories across Nazi-occupied Europe and the territories of Germany's allies. By 1942, they had factories in Switzerland, Italy, Peggy Carter and the map of Hydra bases in Germany, Switzerland and Italy Germany, Austria, Belgium, France, Greece, Poland, and Czechoslovakia. They used captured Allied soldiers to work in factories. 

#### The Rise of Hydra

 uses the Tesseract's power]]
 
In March 1942, Hydra stormed a castle in Tønsberg, Norway where the mystical object known as the Tesseract was buried 531 years ago by Odin. Schmidt saw to it that the Tesseract would be used to its full potential by Arnim Zola. Zola's outlandish designs of robotic power armor, massive vehicles and energy weapons and armor could find a functional use thanks to the Tesseract's power, and with the most advanced technology in the world, Hydra began their conquest that counted Berlin in its targets. By that time, Hydra had millions of foot soldiers located all around the world from small town to large cities. 

In the meantime, Schmidt had his apprentice, General Werner Reinhardt to search for other mysterious artifacts. Reinhardt was able to discover the blue-skinned extraterrestrial corpse in some unspecified location, possibly in the deserts of North Africa. The insignia of the German Afrika Korps on the boxes carried by Hydra soldiers in Shadows implies the corpse was found somewhere in North Africa before the surrender of the Army Group Africa on May 13, 1943. The corpse was soon stored in Hydra Research Facility Number 4 in Austria. 
 gets confronted by Captain America]]
Soon, Hydra's goals would be challenged by America's own super-soldier, Captain America. In November 1943, Rogers attacked Hydra Base Camp C3 in Austria, and managed to free all Allied soldiers who were imprisoned there. This was the first direct conflict between Rogers and Schmidt, who activated the self destruct mode and escaped in the experimental plane. Aided by his best friend, Bucky Barnes and the Howling Commandos, Rogers began a massive assault on Hydra forces across the Axis lines, destroying numerous bases. 
 and Red Skull explore the factory]]
During the first months of 1944, when the Wehrmacht launched the last "Blitz", Schmidt sent a group of Hydra agents to London to steal some blueprints from the Strategic Scientific Reserve. The agents were successful, but they were soon discovered and chased by Rogers who managed to capture all of them. 

In April 1944, Hydra took possession of an old castle on an island in the Nazi-occupied Danish Straits. Schmidt was interested in that castle because of an ancient Viking Runestone that was hidden there. The same month, Rogers and the Commandos invaded the castle. Schmidt attempted to destroy them through his "vita batteries" but they survived. 
 experiments on the Obelisk]]
In the meantime, Reinhardt managed to capture a group of people from China who had found the Obelisk, an object which could turn people into stone. When he showed the artifact to his leader, Schmidt said that the Obelisk may hold the answer to death itself. The Obelisk was soon stored in Reinhardt's fortress in Austria where he used it to experiment on his prisoners. 

By the beginning of 1945, Zola had to be moved to another Hydra facility. However, his train was attacked by the Howling Commandos and he was captured. He was later moved to London where he was interrogated by Chester Phillips. 

#### Defeat

 ]]
 
Despite the loss of Zola, in March 1945 Johann Schmidt was ready to launch the offensive that would change the face of the planet. The same day on which Schmidt intended to launch the attack, the base was infiltrated by Captain America, who was captured and brought before Schmidt himself. However, before Schmidt could kill his nemesis, the base was attacked by the Howling Commandos and the United States Army detachment led by Chester Phillips. Outnumbered, Hydra soldiers were eventually defeated, but not before Schmidt flew away in his Tesseract-powered bomber, the Valkyrie, with the intent to bomb the United States of America.
 getting teleported through space]]
Rogers managed to board the plane and came face to face with Schmidt. When it became clear that Rogers was gaining the upper hand in the fight, Schmidt attempted to use the power of the Tesseract with his bare hands. This only resulted in a beam of light, similar in design to the Bifrost Bridge, which caused Schmidt to disappear, and forcing Rogers to put the bomber plane down in the freezing waters below, freezing himself solid and causing the Tesseract to be lost to the seas. 
 vows Hydra will rise again]]
Immediately after Schmidt's disappearance, Werner Reinhardt had the Obelisk moved from his fortress to a more secure location, a research facility. A month later, he and his lieutenant attempted to empty the facility so they could escape with the artifacts and continue Hydra's work. At that moment, Reinhardt's unit was the last active Hydra cell. However, despite their hurry, the base was discovered and attacked by the U.S. Army detachment led by the Strategic Scientific Reserve team composed of Peggy Carter, Dum Dum Dugan and Jim Morita. After a short fight, the garrison of the base surrendered. All Hydra soldiers were arrested and the artifacts, including the Obelisk, were confiscated. However, before he was taken away, Reinhardt promised to Agent Carter that Hydra would rise again. 

### Rebirth

#### After The War

 ]]
 
In the aftermath of World War II, the United States government started Operation Paperclip, a program used to recruit the scientists of Nazi Germany for employment by the United States and deny their scientific expertise and knowledge to the Soviet Union. As part of the operation, Zola was recruited into S.H.I.E.L.D., the newly formed peacekeeping intelligence agency. Carter then interrogated Reinhardt about his experiments with the Obelisk, and the girl he experimented on. She then had Reinhardt sent to the Rat to serve his life imprisonment. 

Many other former Nazis and Hydra scientists escaped to South America, hoping to hide from justice. Several of them were employed by the government of Peru to make the new Tesseract-powered weapon. The government wanted to use the weapon against the rebels, but due to the instability of the Tesseract energy, the weapon ended up stuck in the undiscovered Incan temple. 
 
Various Hydra operatives who escaped justice after the war infiltrated S.H.I.E.L.D. shortly after it was formed, as well as other positions of power within the American government, working secretly in their ranks. Led by Zola, Hydra worked from the shadows, directing their agents to complete the tasks that were assigned. 
 ]]
Shortly after the war, Arnim Zola found Bucky Barnes who was presumed deceased after falling to an icy death from Zola's train. Zola and other scientists took Barnes to Hydra Siberian Facility where they replaced his lost left arm with the new cybernetic limb. Forming an alliance with the Soviet Union, Hydra brainwashed him, and since he was already injected with the Super Soldier Serum, they turned him into the first subject of the Winter Soldier Program. Over the next decades, Barnes did much on creating chaos in the world, assassinating those who could pose a threat to Hydra's goals, and spending time between missions in cryogenic sleep. 
 ]]
In 1951, Hydra deployed Winter Soldier to aid the Soviet Armed Forces during the , where he encountered a super soldier named Isaiah Bradley. Despite his best efforts, Winter Soldier was unable to kill Bradley, with Bradley being able to nearly destroy his metal arm, although they both survived the encounter. Later, Bradley was imprisoned by the United States Armed Forces for three decades. During that time, scientists of Hydra under disguise ran tests on him. 
 is killed by Hydra]]
In 1955, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Daniel Sousa grew suspicious that the agency had been infiltrated by Hydra. He informed his superior officer, Wilfred Malick, regarding his suspicions, unaware that Malick was a high ranking Hydra member himself. When Sousa was tasked to deliver an item to one of Howard Stark's men at Hotel Roosevelt, he successfully accomplished the mission. However, a Hydra agent followed him to the hotel and shot him after the delivery, thus keeping the infiltration a secret. 

#### Toward the New World Order

 is activated]]
 
Still in league with the Soviet Union, Hydra's power eventually grew to the point that they were able to orchestrate many Cold War events during the 1960s and 1970s, including the , the assassination of John F. Kennedy, the rise to power of in Libya, the , and the . 
 meeting with Daniel Whitehall]]
In 1970, after Wilfred Malick, a head of Hydra, passed away, his sons Gideon and Nathaniel Malick visited Werner Reinhardt in the Rat. He suggested the two neglect the old belief on the Inhuman leader and focus on science, but they refused, claiming that becoming the Traveler to Maveth was a great honor. Later in the evening, Nathaniel was chosen to be sent through the Monolith to Maveth, and never came back. 
 transfers his mind into a computer]]
With S.H.I.E.L.D.'s resources, Arnim Zola managed to build an entire computer system which his mind was uploaded into as an artificially intelligent user interface. Though Zola's body died in 1972, his mind continued to live in cyberspace, from which he was able to provide easy passage into the agency for more Hydra sleeper agents. 
 
By the early 1980s, Hydra managed to infiltrate the Soviet power structures, establishing a secret laboratory in East Berlin. They continued their memory suppression experiments from World War II with the goal to create an army of brainwashed soldiers who would follow every order. However, the laboratory was infiltrated by Hank Pym, a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who used his size-changing Ant-Man Suit to ruin the laboratory, destroy the Memory Suppressing Machine, free the prisoner and knock down all the guards. Ant-Man Prelude 
 being released from prison]]
In 1989, undersecretary Alexander Pierce, a Hydra sleeper agent, granted Werner Reinhardt medical parole and made sure there were no records of him after this. Reinhardt was then taken back to his fortress where a group village elders from the Hunan province, which included the woman he experimented on, were brought in. Seeing that she had not aged a day, Reinhardt then performed surgery on her to find out why the Obelisk did not kill her and why she did not age. Although he did not find the reason behind Obelisk's reason for sparing her, Reinhardt was able to use her DNA to regress his body back to a younger age. Reinhardt then took the name "Daniel Whitehall." 
 is tested in John Garrett]]
Hydra also oversaw Project Deathlok in 1990, using John Garrett as their first test subject, making him the first Deathlok. However, only the cybernetic components worked, and the organs were severely affected, leading Garrett to look for a solution to perfect Deathlok and to prevent his slow-coming death. 

Future members of Hydra were educated at the HYDRA Preparatory Academy, where each student's position was determined. One of the students was R. Hale, who was assigned by Whitehall to be in the United States Air Force, but also, via Project Destroyer of Worlds, to carry an enhanced child who would be the most powerful person on Earth and the future leader of Hydra. 
 is killed by Winter Soldier]]
In December 1991, Vasily Karpov, a high-ranking Hydra agent within the Soviet Armed Forces, woke up Winter Soldier from suspended animation and sent him to retrieve the recreated Super Soldier Serum from Howard Stark. Barnes killed Howard and his wife Maria in an automobile "accident" on Long Island. Hydra used the serum to expand the Winter Soldier Program, creating five more Winter Soldiers. However, the five soldiers started to attack and kill their superiors, who were forced to bring them back to the Cryostasis Chambers. Ten days after the Starks' deaths, the Soviet Union dissolved, ending their affiliation with Hydra. 

Even without Soviet backing, Hydra continued their assassinations against their enemies, sending Winter Soldier to eliminate a target in Hotel Inessa. Winter Soldier successfully killed the target, his personal bodyguards and even a witness. 
 
By 1995, S.H.I.E.L.D. had established a facility in Ohio to study the brain function. However, it was actually run by Hydra operatives, who were assisted by the Winter Soldier Program. In order to posses the data of this facility's research, Russia had sent two of their spies, Alexei Shostakov and Melina Vostokoff, to retrieve the data from Hydra. Eventually, they were able to steal a secret file and even destroy the facility, but they were spotted by S.H.I.E.L.D., forcing the two and flee to Cuba. 

In 2007, Hydra orchestrated the . Perception’s Captain America: The Winter Soldier Montage 

#### Facing the Other Worlds

 manipulates the World Council]]
 
In the meantime, Gideon Malick was working on Project Distant Star Return, hoping to bring Hydra's ancient Inhuman leader back to Earth, as he was a firm believer in Hydra's original believes. Using his connections, he orchestrated the passage of the Monolith to NASA, with the hope that their technicians could send people on the other side. In 2001, a four men team was sent through the portal, never to return. Eventually, Malick became a member of the World Security Council. 

The Hydra weapons and technology captured by the Strategic Scientific Reserve during the war were studied by S.H.I.E.L.D. S.H.I.E.L.D. started a program called "Phase 2", which involved reactivating the Hydra weapons with the Tesseract for use against super-powered or other-worldly forces. As the Chitauri led by Loki invaded New York City, Malick ordered Nick Fury to nuke New York, which Fury refused, so Malick committed the order by himself. 
 taking Loki's Scepter away]]
As soon as the Avengers defeated Loki, Alexander Pierce tasked Jasper Sitwell and the STRIKE unit to deal with the aftermath of the battle. Sitwell and Brock Rumlow took the Scepter from the Avengers and contacted List who was interested in researching the alien technology. Meanwhile, Pierce himself confronted the Avengers, demanding them hand Loki and the Tesseract to S.H.I.E.L.D. The Avengers refused to listen to Pierce's demands, as Fury allowed Thor to take Loki and the Tesseract to Asgard, which Malick later criticized. 
 Twins are given powers by Hydra]]
Eventually, Baron Strucker approached Mark Smith and offered him to join Hydra. Dissatisfied with the way S.H.I.E.L.D. was led, Smith killed Nicholas Cooper, and stole the Scepter for Hydra. Thanks to Smith's betrayal, Hydra's scientists also got their hands on dozens of Chitauri Guns. At the research facility in Sokovia, Strucker and List managed to use the Scepter to power the Chitauri Guns and Hydra's own technology. They also conducted experiments on human volunteers, including Wanda and Pietro Maximoff. 

Using transceivers found in the wreckage of one of the Chitauri cruisers, a group of Hydra infiltrators within the US Air Force led by Fischer established contact with the Confederacy which warned them about the incoming threat of Thanos what will affect the whole humanity. 

#### The Clairvoyant

 recruits Grant Ward into Hydra]]
 
Following the Battle of New York, John Garrett, known as the Clairvoyant, recruited and funded the Centipede Project to provide them with super-soldiers and to help keep himself from dying. Garrett also faked the termination of Carl Creel, Baron Strucker's previous test subject, off the Index and recruited him too. One of the first Centipede's test subject was Mike Peterson. 

Garrett made people like Ian Quinn and Raina believe that he could see everything such as what the President dreams about. Garrett also had Grant Ward, recruited by Phil Coulson for his team, in order to find out about Coulson's revival. Garrett then had Coulson captured and interrogated for three days to find the secrets behind his revival in Tahiti. 

Garrett ordered Quinn to shoot Skye and then made sure that he would be the one to take Quinn in, and to have Coulson lead him to where he was revived. After getting inside, unbeknownst to Coulson and Leo Fitz, he took a few of the drugs and hid them in his vest before the place was destroyed. He then ordered to turn Peterson into a cybernetic super soldier, known as Deathlok. 

### Hydra Uprising

#### Project Insight

 ]]
 
Two years after the Battle of New York, S.H.I.E.L.D. was much better armed than before, so it could easily repel any attack from other worlds. Nick Fury started Project Insight, an operation which involved three heavily armed Helicarriers that were designed to proactively strike out against potential threats against the United States before they actually happened. However, Hydra used this opportunity to take control of the project. With Arnim Zola's special algorithm that could calculate who could be a threat to Hydra in the future, Alexander Pierce intended to wipe out 20 million people from the face of the Earth. 

#### The End of S.H.I.E.L.D.

 
 
Hydra's infiltration of S.H.I.E.L.D. was finally exposed when Alexander Pierce attempted to activate Project Insight early. Steve Rogers and Natasha Romanoff learned about the infiltration when they entered the secret bunker hidden beneath Camp Lehigh, which was housing Arnim Zola's mind, still alive on dozens of old computers. Though the camp, along with the mainframe housing Zola's mind, was destroyed with a missile, Rogers and Romanoff survived the explosion. A day later, with the help of Sam Wilson they kidnapped Jasper Sitwell, but he was killed by the Winter Soldier. The trio was captured by the STRIKE team, but they managed to escape with the help of Maria Hill.
 's mind getting wiped again]]
Pierce demanded a mission report from the Winter Soldier after the failed assassination attempt on Rogers. However, he had become erratic and aggressive due to flashbacks to his past. As Pierce believed that he could become a threat if left like this, he ordered that the Winter Soldier's mind be wiped.
 getting killed by Nick Fury]]
Rogers, Romanoff, Wilson, and Hill infiltrated the Triskelion, publicly revealing Hydra's continued existence. Pierce and Hydra operatives then captured all the members of the World Security Council, but they were freed by Romanoff. When Brock Rumlow launched the Insight Helicarriers, Romanoff, Rogers, Hill, and Nick Fury managed to reprogram the Helicarriers to target each other. The battle left the Triskelion in shambles and resulted in the deaths of many Hydra agents, including Pierce. 

#### New Battles

 reveals his allegiance to Hydra]]
 
In order to finish off S.H.I.E.L.D., Hydra sent out an activation signal to all sleeper agents to target remaining S.H.I.E.L.D. agents and seize power. During the Battle at the Hub, John Garrett broke his cover and attempted to eliminate Phil Coulson and several members of his team, but he was stopped and later arrested by Victoria Hand. Garrett and the remaining Hydra moles in the Hub were taken into prison. 

Meanwhile, Hydra operatives in other S.H.I.E.L.D. bases were also activated. Several facilities fell into Hydra's hands, including the S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy, the Treehouse, and S.H.I.E.L.D. East African Headquarters. Hydra operatives also attempted to take control of the Cube, but they were outnumbered by the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who managed to repel the attack. A fierce battle was fought for the control of the Iliad, but Hydra's moles were ultimately defeated. 
 welcomes Raina into Hydra]]
Escaping Hand's custody with the aid of Grant Ward, Garrett continued to work on the Centipede Project at the Hydra base in Havana. Garrett then raided the Fridge, stealing many items such as the Peruvian 0-8-4, the Berserker Staff, and the Gravitonium. Ultimately, his branch of Hydra was defeated by the combined efforts of Coulson, his team, and Nick Fury, with their prisoners also freed and most of the stolen items recovered. 

#### The Age of Miracles

 examines the Scepter]]
 
As the failure of Project Insight, Hydra reassigned its operation to the research facility in Sokovia where Hydra scientists were conducting experiments on the Scepter, eventually learning that its power was much greater than they originally thought. Hydra had found some genetic oddities among Sokovia's inhabitants, which ideally made them candidates for experiments with the Mind Stone. Many civilian volunteers exposed to the power of the Scepter died in horrifying deaths, beside Wanda and Pietro Maximoff survived the experiments. 

#### The Winter Hunt

 tracks down Hydra operatives]]
 
Despite Glenn Talbot's massive manhunt for S.H.I.E.L.D. and Hydra, Hydra continued its plans for world domination by retreating to the shadows. Despite its existence being publicly known, Hydra was still determined as ever to conquer the world by any means necessary. Their plans could go much easier as they now heavily outnumbered S.H.I.E.L.D. in men, bases, and resources. 

#### Whitehall's Campaign

 lectures his own scientists]]
 
Tasked by Daniel Whitehall, Sunil Bakshi sent Carl Creel to retrieve the Diviner. However, the Diviner was then was taken by Raina and Creel was then captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. and turned over to Glenn Talbot. 

Following that, Hydra recruited Jemma Simmons, who was, in fact, undercover for S.H.I.E.L.D. Hydra's next move was to locate Donnie Gill who was hiding in Casablanca, Morocco where he killed two Hydra operatives. A team led by Sunil Bakshi and Simmons was sent to capture him at the Maribel del Mar. Activating Gill's mind control trigger, Bakshi ordered him to eliminate S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. However, Gill was shot by Skye and he fell off the ship, while Bakshi ordered his men to retreat.
 is controlled by Daniel Whitehall]]
Meanwhile, Hydra managed to capture Agent 33, allowing Daniel Whitehall to brainwash her with the Faustus method. Hydra also continued to investigate the Words of Creation that Garrett had been carving while under the effects of GH.325. Bakshi, disguised as Glenn Talbot, and Agent 33 were dispatched to Miami to retrieve a 500-year-old painting that had the writing on its backside. However, in the ensuing battle at the Hotel La Ona, they lost the painting to Coulson and Melinda May. 

#### Weaponizing the Obelisk

 working undercover at Hydra]]
 
Using skin samples from an Diviner victim, Hydra created a toxin and used it on a Naval anti-Hydra unit, killing some of them. Hydra then had Bobbi Morse hunt for a traitor in its midst. At first, Kenneth Turgeon was thought to be the traitor, but the traitor was revealed to be Jemma Simmons. However, Morse revealed herself to be a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent and the two escaped, so Whitehall and Bakshi had the lab dismantled and relocated.

However, Whitehall then met Calvin Zabo, who gave him back the Obelisk, and offered to give him and Hydra its secrets in exchange for killing Coulson. Whitehall, using deceased Hydra scientist Vincent Beckers's weapons designs, had Toshiro Mori weaponize the Obelisk, now known as the Diviner, incorporating its power into Splinter Bombs.
 throwing the Splinter Bombs]]
Whitehall then had Marcus Scarlotti and his team attack the United Nations posing as S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, killing several delegates and wounding General Talbot. Following the attack, Julien Beckers offered Belgium as a safe haven for S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. However, it was revealed that he was Vincent Beckers' grandson and loyal to Hydra, setting a trap for S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Beckers then had Scarlotti kill Noelle Walters and her team. However, Beckers, Scarlotti and his team were apprehended by S.H.I.E.L.D. and the United States Armed Forces. 

Sunil Bakshi took two operatives with him to meet Grant Ward in Goldbrix Tavern in Boston. Bakshi stated that he was surprised to hear from Ward because it was believed that he had died. Ward, knowing that Baron Strucker was operating overseas, asked if he could meet Bakshi's superior, but he was told that Whitehall was too busy for a meet-and-greet. Ward tempted Bakshi by saying that he could get him a face-to-face with Phil Coulson. However, Ward then killed the bartender and the two other operatives. He knocked Bakshi unconscious and left him tied to a chair with tape on his mouth with the words "To Coulson". Bakshi was later found by Melinda May. 

#### Search for the City

 being brought to Daniel Whitehall]]
 
Meanwhile, Whitehall was upset that his scientists gave him information about the Diviner that he had known since 1945. When Calvin Zabo was brought in at gunpoint, Whitehall explained to him that tensions were high since the capture of Bakshi. Zabo asked to hear all Whitehall knew about the Diviner so he could edit the story appropriately. Zabo informed him that there was a temple in a city that the Diviner screened for worthy candidates; the unworthy were petrified. He then requested a team to find that city.

Though originally hesitant, Whitehall allowed Zabo to take a team to Laura Creek, Australia; there was a satellite relaying station in that location that was easy to infiltrate. During the mission, they ambushed Phil Coulson's team and Antoine Triplett was fatally shot. Zabo offered to help him live so that he could meet Coulson personally. Zabo told Coulson that he was surprised that he was searching for the city since Whitehall did not know about it until he told him. Ultimately, Coulson let him escape in order to finish saving Triplett. When The Doctor returned to Whitehall, he was introduced to Grant Ward, who has rejoined Hydra.
 attempting to commit suicide]]
Meanwhile, Bakshi, in a show of loyalty to Hydra and Whitehall, used a cyanide pill lodged in his cheekbone to stop the interrogation of Bobbi Morse when she revealed that S.H.I.E.L.D. was researching the continued survival of Werner Reinhardt into the 21st century. 

#### Battle for the Kree City

 giving Daniel Whitehall an update]]
 
A team of Hydra agents led by Agent 33 was sent to Vancouver, Canada, where Hydra finally managed to find Raina. However, when Raina saw and realized who Agent 33 is, she started running away from her. Though she temporarily escaped, Agent 33 located her at the safehouse, where she got into conflict with Skye. She was eventually knocked down by Skye and Lance Hunter. A few minutes later, a group of Hydra agents saw a S.H.I.E.L.D. team taking Raina into a van and escaping. Agent 33 informed Whitehall about Raina's escape and he told her that he would send his best man to take care of the situation.
 ]]
Later, four of Hydra's Quinjets followed the Bus which was carrying Raina. Grant Ward threatened to shoot the plane unless S.H.I.E.L.D. hands over Raina. The S.H.I.E.L.D. agents on board the plane had to comply, but Ward also forced Skye to come with him, promising that he would spare the lives of her colleagues. When Ward's Quinjet flew away, Whitehall ordered the remaining aircraft to destroy the enemy plane. The Quinjets launched missiles at the plane, which was hidden in the cloud, seemingly destroying it.
 
Meanwhile, thanks to the attack on the Laura Creek Station, Hydra managed to discover the location of the ancient Kree City which was built thousands of years earlier. The city was hidden under the city of San Juan in Puerto Rico. Whitehall and Agent 33 immediately traveled to San Juan, where Hydra quietly occupied the Ponce de León Theater, with their agents drilling a tunnel to the Kree City. Once Ward, Raina, Skye, and The Doctor came there, Whitehall forced Skye to touch the Obelisk. She survived the touch and killed one Hydra agent with it. Ward then aimed his pistol at Whitehall's men, while The Doctor killed one agent with his scalpel. But the mutiny was short-lived, and they were all taken into custody.
 dying by Phil Coulson's hand]]
When the tunnel was finished, a group of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents infiltrated the theater. Raina went into the Kree City, while Whitehall and his men attempted to deal with the intruders. However, as The Doctor encountered Whitehall alone in the corridor and prepared to kill him, Whitehall was shot in the back by Phil Coulson. Agent 33 then arrived, shooting at them, and discovered Whitehall's dead body. Without Whitehall she did not know what to do, so she returned to the wounded Ward, who convinced her to help him to leave the scene. 

### Under Attack

#### Cutting Off the Heads

 attending a meeting of the council]]
 
With Whitehall dead, his seat in the Hydra Council remained empty, and the remaining heads of Hydra discussed who could take Whitehall's place. The gathered leaders were List, the Sheikh, the Baroness, the Banker and Octavian Bloom. List, acting on the order of Baron Strucker, proposed Sunil Bakshi. Other leaders replied that he was probably captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. and therefore dead if he did his duty. List told them to stop underestimating S.H.I.E.L.D., and that the person that destroys S.H.I.E.L.D. will win Whitehall's position, while he personally would take a look at Whitehall's research of arcane artifacts.
 
Meanwhile, Bakshi managed to escape from S.H.I.E.L.D. and went to Bloom's estate. Convinced that other leaders of Hydra wanted to eliminate them, he and Bloom contacted Doctor List, who assured them that he and Baron von Strucker were not involved in any attacks on them. Afraid that they could be the next target, Bakshi convinced Bloom to simply kill the other three leaders. Using the Splinter Bomb and other tools that weaponized the effect of the Diviner, Bloom's agents killed the Banker, the Sheikh, and the Baroness.

However, Bloom's house was infiltrated by Lance Hunter and Bobbi Morse who killed Bloom and recaptured Bakshi, revealing that his escape was a ruse concocted by Phil Coulson to lead S.H.I.E.L.D. to Hydra's leadership. Later, Bakshi was kidnapped from United States Air Force facility by Agent 33 and Grant Ward who decided to brainwash him with the Faustus method. 

#### The New Threat

 
Jensen and her agents managed to reverse engineer the obtained Chitauri tech, so she informed her colleagues in Khartoum to come to help her. The call was intercepted by Black Widow, and the Avengers quickly flew to Port Sudan. Though Hydra managed to shoot down the Quinjet, the Avengers fiercely attacked Hydra's operatives. Despite their tanks, guns, and numerical superiority, Hydra soldiers decided to retreat. However, Jensen took the power gauntlets from one fallen soldier and attacked the Avengers with heavy energy blasts. However, Hawkeye sneaked up behind her and destroyed her weapon with one of his explosive arrows. 

#### The Hunt for the Enhanced

 examines the corpse of Ethan Johnston]]
 
Meanwhile, Baron Strucker and List became interested in powered people. List's operatives started hunting them and managed to capture several of them, and List used the opportunity to experiment on them. One of his victims was Ethan Johnston, but he couldn't find the Quantum Entanglements he was searching for, the traces of a man who had the ability to teleport from one place to another.

One day, List was called by Sunil Bakshi, and they had a meeting on List's plane. With Bakshi was Mike Peterson, and Bakshi offered him to List, saying that he could become a great asset to Hydra. List agreed to take Bakshi to von Strucker's base in Sokovia.
 captures Deathlok and Lincoln]]
During the journey, the plane made a stop in Milwaukee, and Bakshi, Peterson, and numerous Hydra soldiers entered one abandoned building. Once they were inside, they faced Lincoln Campbell, Calvin Zabo, and several S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Peterson managed to knock down the unknown intruder, but Bakshi then ordered his men to take Peterson down. In the end, Hydra won the battle, taking the prisoner with them. 
 orders his men to destroy the Bus]]
The prisoners were taken to List's base in the Arctic, where he continued his experiments. List also informed von Strucker about the development of the situation, who was very pleased with the news. Suddenly, a plane approached the base. Realizing the intruders were S.H.I.E.L.D., List ordered his men to shoot them out of the sky. The Bus was destroyed, but the intruders managed to survive the crash and infiltrated the base. In the ensuing battle, all Hydra agents in the base, and Bakshi, were killed, but List managed to escape and eventually rejoined von Strucker in Sokovia. 

#### Disaster in Sokovia

 's base being attacked]]
 
Unfortunately for Hydra, S.H.I.E.L.D. learned about the exact location of their Sokovian base from their facility in the Arctic and passed that information to Maria Hill, who gave it to the Avengers. The Sokovian base was attacked, and though Hydra soldiers managed to slow down the Avengers, their tanks, armors and advanced weaponry were no match for the strength of the attackers. The base was ultimately captured, List was killed by Iron Man, and Baron Strucker was captured by Captain America. Wanda Maximoff and Quicksilver, though they briefly fought the Avengers, eventually abandoned the site of the battle.

The main laboratory inside the base was discovered by Stark who took the Scepter and had it transported to the Avengers Tower. Baron von Strucker and the remaining Hydra soldiers were handed over to NATO. Von Strucker was later killed in his prison cell by Ultron. 

### Hydra Strikes Back

#### Raising the Inhuman Army

 
Despite the fall of most of Hydra's cells and the abrupt end of many of Hydra's operations, Gideon Malick remained in his public position undetected, still incredibly powerful. Eventually, he became an advisor to Matthew Ellis and used his connections to continue with Project Distant Star Return. He even expanded the project, manipulating the US Government to authorize the creation of the Advanced Threat Containment Unit, an agency that would replace S.H.I.E.L.D. and collect and study the newly transformed Inhumans. Overseeing the ATCU's science division, Malick aimed to create an Inhuman army for Hydra's first leader to command when he returns from his exile on Maveth. Malick's men in the ATCU gave the fish oil pills contaminated by the impure Terrigen Crystals to many people so they could create as many Inhumans as they could. 

#### Dealings with Darren Cross

 and Mitchell Carson]]
 
Hydra representatives led by Mitchell Carson, made a deal with Darren Cross, the leader of Cross Technologies. Cross offered to sell them Hank Pym's Pym Particle technology, the same technology that Carson failed to get his hands on in 1989 when Pym abandoned S.H.I.E.L.D. With the Yellowjacket Suit, Carson intended to reassert Hydra's dominance, but his efforts were squashed by Scott Lang, the second Ant-Man. However, during the chaos, Carson did escape with a vial of Cross' modified Pym Particles. 

#### Project Ultimo

With many destroyed Ultron Sentries from the Battle of Sokovia, Hydra collected many of the parts and took them to an undisclosed location in Eastern Europe, where they used the parts to create a giant robot called Ultimo. Hydra then used the Ultimo to attack a small village. The Avengers reacted to the attack and destroyed Ultimo. 

### Two Heads, Two Goals

#### New Members

 as one of Hydra's new leaders]]
 
Devoid of leadership, Hydra operatives were reluctant when Grant Ward decided that he would take the reins of leadership. Ward was forced to physically engage Kebo to show his control. 

For months, the bank accounts and financial transactions of Hydra known by S.H.I.E.L.D. had no activity. Lance Hunter did research to find any activity but found nothing. 

Meanwhile, Ward recruited new members for his own Hydra cell, continuing his private war against Phil Coulson's S.H.I.E.L.D. Ward made it known that he was to be addressed as Director, mirroring Coulson's position with S.H.I.E.L.D. He also decided to clean Hydra from weak and corrupt members who cared only about the money. He kidnapped and eventually convinced Werner von Strucker to join Hydra so they could rebuild the organization and make it stronger than ever. To ensure that Hydra's ranks were filled only with the strongest and the toughest men and women, Ward and Kebo began organizing fights for the new volunteers, accepting as new members only the winners. 

#### Attack on the Director

 orders the death of Lance Hunter]]
 
One of the winners in the fight club was Richy who killed Spud during his fight. Richy worked under Kebo's orders and brought to Hydra a large weapons cache and even agreed to join a mission with Kebo. When he was brought to Ward's base, he opened fire on Ward and his men, revealing himself as Lance Hunter who was on a revenge mission to kill Ward. A firefight started between Ward's men and Hunter and Melinda May soon appeared on the scene. Ward ordered Kebo to call Werner von Strucker and order him to get closer to Andrew Garner so he could kill him and threaten May.

Despite the video, Hunter continued advancing on Ward and Kebo. The pair managed to escape by jumping through the window and running onto a truck, but not before Hunter managed to fire a shot which wounded Ward in the shoulder. When Ward did not cancel his order, von Strucker attempted to continue with his mission, but failed due to unexpected circumstances. 

#### Tensions between the Heads

 meeting Werner von Strucker]]
 
While Grant Ward, Kebo, and their men moved to another base, Werner von Strucker went to Gideon Malick, the head of another Hydra cell and the only modern Hydra leader that all other heads feared. Von Strucker informed Malick about Ward's actions and he was not pleased with the news. To make the situation clear, Malick called Ward and offered him redemption for his mistakes, such as making von Strucker a pawn on the chessboard before schedule, but Ward arrogantly replied that he did not need redemption. However, knowing that von Strucker was now a damaged good that couldn't be left to run around knowing Hydra's secrets, Malick gave his location to Ward to prevent internal fights within Hydra's ranks and ensure Ward's cooperation in Hydra's resurgence.
 brutally tortures Werner von Strucker]]
Sent by Ward, Kebo and two of his men caught up with von Strucker in Lisbon and captured him. However, the torture session was interrupted by the arrival of two S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, Melinda May and Bobbi Morse, who were also looking for von Strucker. In the ensuing fight, Kebo was electrocuted to death in a swimming pool and his men were beaten by the intruders. Before he went into a coma, von Strucker told May that he saw Andrew Garner transforming into Lash. 

Though Grant Ward's cell lost three men, the mission was a partial success. Shortly after, Ward and Malick organized a meeting to discuss joint operations against S.H.I.E.L.D. Ward revealed to Malick that he was planning the assassination of Phil Coulson, both for revenge and the destruction of S.H.I.E.L.D. 

#### The Secret Origins of Hydra

 killing all of Gideon Malick's men]]
 
As Grant Ward and Gideon Malick had a dinner, Malick revealed to him that he knew he was looking for the von Strucker family vault, which by the rumors contained Hydra's greatest power. Ward suggested they would find and use it together, but Malick refused and ordered his men to kill Ward. However, Ward managed to defeat all of them and questioned the survivors about the location of the vault. They told him that the vault was in Zepkow. Ward came to the vault a few minutes after Malick.
 ]]
Ward threatened to kill Malick, but instead, he listened as Malick explained the whole history of Hydra, including its true origin. Malick offered Ward a leadership next him when they finally accomplish what Hydra started, to bring their leader back to Earth and create for him an Inhuman army so he could rule the world as he was meant to. Ward agreed and Malick asked him to find out who S.H.I.E.L.D. managed to bring back from Maveth. After that, Ward visited Andrew Garner in the Containment Module and tried to transform him into Lash. 

#### Bringing the Inhuman back

 assassinates Rosalind Price]]
 
Gideon Malick suspected that Rosalind Price might know that he was Hydra, so he sent Grant Ward to kill her. He sniped her when she was in her apartment and then he called Phil Coulson, who was also in there, and told him that was a revenge on the death of Kara Palamas. He ordered his men to kill Coulson, but he escaped. Ward returned to the Hydra Castle, where Malick greeted him, but also warned him that his actions could jeopardize the return of Hive. Yet, Ward promised him that the plan would succeed, because he knew Coulson better than himself.
 torture Jemma Simmons]]
In an abandoned Project Distant Star Return facility, R. Giyera ambushed Leo Fitz, Jemma Simmons and Luther Banks, who searched for the Monolith there. Giyera killed Banks and kidnapped Fitz and Simmons. They were brought to the castle and Malick asked them to help them bring the Inhuman back from Maveth, but after the two refused, they were separated and Giyera tortured Simmons to get from her the information they needed. Fitz could not hear the screams of Simmons, so he volunteered to assist the Hydra delegation to Maveth.
 ]]
As Ward prepared for Coulson, who had informed him that he came for him to kill him, Malick convinced him to lead the delegation in Maveth and accomplish the goal of Hydra. Ward agreed and he, Fitz and the team jumped through the portal to Maveth. However, a Quinjet flew above the castle, so Hydra tried to shoot them out of the sky. As Malick ordered to close the portal, he saw Coulson jumping from the Quinjet directly to the portal. The team on Maveth dealt with a sandstorm. 
 and Leo Fitz arriving onto Maveth]]
After a few hours, Fitz tried to take Ward's gun, but Ward prevented him from to do it and threatened that if he would not come back, Simmons would die. Then, one of the soldiers called Ward and they saw a structure shaped as the Hydra symbol. Later, Fitz found a hole in the ground and escaped through it. Ward ran after him and found him along with what was supposedly Will Daniels, who had been on the planet for years. Fitz promised that "Daniels" would show them the way to the portal and begged Ward not to kill him. Ward agreed and Fitz helped "Daniels" walk.
 ]]
On Earth, Hydra brought dozen Inhumans inside Suspension Gel, so they would serve the leader as his army. Meanwhile, S.H.I.E.L.D. infiltrated the castle, freed Simmons and barricaded themselves inside the portal chamber. Malick also discovered that Lash had escaped from the Containment Module and killed all the Inhumans. He ordered his soldiers to break in the chamber. They tried to do so, but the doors were reinforced. At the same time, "Daniels" led the team to the location of the next portal.
 and "Will Daniels" lead the team]] He told Ward that the leader had used to live in the structure they saw. However, another sandstorm occurred and they had to hide. "Daniels" killed some of the soldiers and he and Fitz escaped. After the sandstorm was over, Ward saw the soldiers' bodies, when suddenly the rest of his men were killed by Phil Coulson. Coulson pointed his gun at Ward and forced him to lead the way to the portal. Fitz and "Daniels" were close to the portal's location, when Fitz discovered that "Daniels" was actually Hive, possessing Daniels' corpse. The two then fought each other.
 getting killed by Phil Coulson]]
Coulson saw Hive ready to kill Fitz and he shot him. Ward used the distraction and attacked Coulson. The portal was reopened and Hive tried to reach for it. When a standard firearm proved completely useless on Hive, Fitz shot the dark Inhuman with a flare gun, burning Daniels' body to a crisp. Coulson managed to defeat Ward and stood over him and thought about all the lives he had taken, including Victoria Hand, Eric Koenig and the Assassination of Rosalind Price for which Coulson was seeking revenge for. Coulson, using his robotic hand, he crushed Ward's chest, causing his death.
 finally returning onto the Earth]]
However, Hive survived the destruction of Daniels' body and made use of Ward's body as his new host. The dark Inhuman followed Coulson and Fitz, escaping back to Earth through the portal moments before the Hydra Castle was destroyed by Zephyr One. When Gideon Malick was being driven to the airport, he encountered Hive on the road, still holding Phil Coulson's Prosthetic Hand. Malick looked on in amazement, knowing that he had finally accomplished the ultimate goal of Hydra. 

### Hive's Reign

#### Hive's Recovery

 's base]]
 
For three months, Hive recovered in Gideon Malick's base, struggling to speak and stand. However, Hive eventually spoke and ask from Malick food. At the same time, Hydra received reports on a new Inhuman in Bogotá, so R. Giyera sent a team to recover him. Later, Malick received a phone call from Phil Coulson who tracked everywhere the line was connected. Malick insured him that although he would have to close some of his offices, he could not be defeated so easily. An Hydra QuadCopter then flew over a station of the National Police of Colombia and captured Lucio in its cargo bay and returned to Malick's base. 

Lucio was brought to Hive's room, where the latter infected the former with his parasites. He later asked Giyera to find for him five living humans. He brought them into his room. Using his power, Hive healed Ward's body by consuming the five humans' skins and flesh, leaving only their scorched skeletons. 

#### Building an Army

 attends the Alien Symposium]]
 
Gideon Malick learned that Glenn Talbot had been appointed as the new head of the Advanced Threat Containment Unit; he kidnapped George Talbot and extorted him to cooperate with him. As a symposium about the Inhumans was convened, Malick ordered Talbot to betray Phil Coulson during it. After Talbot did it, Malick entered the room and to gain the delegates' trust by accusing Coulson of being the Director of Hydra. He took Coulson and Talbot to the basement and revealed to Coulson that he was building an army of Inhumans. He ordered his men to kill him, but Carl Creel freed them. Together they freed Talbot's son from the Suspension Gel. Malick exploited his connection with Anton Petrov and flew with him to Russia. 
 controls the Russian leadership]]
Malick and Petrov eventually arrived at a decommissioned facility in Siberia where Petrov introduced Malick to several other Russian leaders and they discussed the plans to build a sanctuary state for Inhumans. Petrov revealed to Malick that Russian Prime Minister Dimitri Olshenko was against the idea as his opposition was in support. When Malick learned that the captured Androvich who was also in support of the sanctuary, Malick suggested that they free Androvich and allow him to assassinate Olshenko, as a way to get control of Inhumans for Hive. With this in place, Malick left Russia, but shortly after he departed, S.H.I.E.L.D. intervened, saving Olshenko and killing Androvich. 

#### Supporting the Watchdogs

 making his dealings with Felix Blake]]
 
Through R. Giyera, Hydra came in contact with Felix Blake who founded the Watchdogs to fight the recently transformed Inhumans. Not knowing that he was becoming Hydra's pawn, Blake and his men raided an ATCU facility, stealing a nuclear warhead. Blake later gave the warhead to Giyera, expecting improved weapons in exchange to deal with the Inhuman Outbreak and kill them, although Giyera did not inform him of his own Inhuman powers. 

#### Transia

 and Hive having their dinner]]
 
Hydra managed to kidnap Charles Hinton. Meanwhile, Gideon Malick and Hive had a dinner, in which the latter was able to tell that Malick was after true power. Hive informed Malick that he planned to take over Transia Corporation in order to achieve his desire. As men brought in Hinton, Hive told Malick it was time to reveal themselves, setting Phil Coulson's Prosthetic Hand on the table and informing Malick that he planned to take over Transia Corporation to achieve his desire.
 and Hive attend their meeting]]
Hive and Malick met with Transia managers at the Transia headquarters to buy the company. At first, they refused, but with Hinton's power, they saw their death. They eventually agreed to hand it over to Malick and Hive killed all of them, leaving Rowan Hamilton. By Hive's command, Malick wore the Transia Corporation Exoskeleton which increased his strength. With Hive's encouraging, Malick killed the CEO with his bare hands. As S.H.I.E.L.D. attacked the building, Malick dueled with Daisy Johnson who came to save Hinton. Malick, using the Exoskeleton, killed him and almost killed Johnson, but she destroyed the suit with her power.

Once safe in Malick's Headquarters, Hive ordered R. Giyera to find another piece of Transia technology. Malick called Giyera, scared, reminding him he was working with him. Giyera answered that he was meant to be with Hive now. 

#### Change of Loyalties

 reveals his true form to Hydra's leaders]]
 
Hive invited the inner circle members of Hydra to the Malick Mansion, without informing Gideon Malick. He also ordered R. Giyera and a team of Hydra agents to raid the GT Agrochemical Facility, to destroy the research take out equipment and papers. As the inner circle members arrived, Hive revealed his actual appearance to the Hydra members. Later, Hive, with Malick's brother's memories, reminded him of his betrayal on his brother years ago. He accused Malick of not knowing what true sacrifice was, so he killed his daughter in front of his eyes.

Meanwhile, Giyera was kidnapped by S.H.I.E.L.D. and was brought to Zephyr One. However, he managed to take control of the plane with his power and brought it to Malick's base. 

#### Attack on Malick's Base

 deciding to betray Hydra]]
 
As Gideon Malick's men tried to kill every S.H.I.E.L.D. agent on Zephyr One, the Secret Warriors attacked the base to rescue their friends. With Malick as a captive and Lucio's death, S.H.I.E.L.D. managed to retake the plane and escaped the base. Nevertheless, Hive had infected Daisy Johnson during the battle; he gave Johnson orders that included assassinating Malick to prevent him from giving up secrets. However, despite Johnson's success, her opportunity to kill Malick came too late; disillusioned with Hive and Hydra, Malick had given up the locations of Hydra bases that he knew to Phil Coulson. 

### New Defeats

#### Talbot's Offensive

 's forces attack Hydra]]
 
With the information Gideon Malick had given to Phil Coulson before his death, the latter passed them to Glenn Talbot. Using the full power of the Advanced Threat Containment Unit and the United States Air Force, Talbot led a full-scale assault on all known Hydra bases, resulting in the deaths or incarceration of many Hydra operatives. At least 17 bases were captured along with the equipment at the bases. 

He personally came to arrest Fischer but not before the latter had passed R. Hale her next assignment and had committed suicide. With her true allegiance still a secret, Hale continued Hydra's exchange of messages with the Confederacy. Hive's cell escaped the decimation of Hydra, but the dark Inhuman was too focused on creating a better world for Inhumans and raising an Inhuman army to care about reforming Hydra. Without a head that cared about reforming it, the majority of Hydra was in shambles; its original purpose having turned out to be a dangerous mistake. 

#### Loss of the Heads

 ]]
 
Kirk Vogel and the other two remaining members of the Hydra faction that worshipped Hive assembled in Union City, the town in Wyoming bought by Hive with Gideon Malick's money. Hive promised to turn them into Inhumans as a reward for their loyalty. However, when Holden Radcliffe injected them with Hive's DNA, all three of them melted down. The former Hydra operatives stationed at the Schoonebeek Oil Field were moved to Union City to serve as security personnel, and many of them were slaughtered by the Kree Reapers. Following repeated conflicts with S.H.I.E.L.D., Hive's cell was taken down and Hive himself was ultimately killed with a nuclear warhead in space, thanks to the sacrifice of Lincoln Campbell, who steered the Quinjet containing Hive and the warhead into space. 

#### End of the Winter Soldier Program

 are killed by Helmut Zemo]]
 
Using the Hydra data, leaked by Black Widow, Helmut Zemo hunted down and executed multiple Hydra members who worked on the Winter Soldier Program to prevent the super soldier production from restarting. Eventually, Zemo tracked down and tortured Vasily Karpov, interrogating him about the assassination of Howard and Maria Stark. After killing Karpov, Zemo retrieved the Winter Soldier Book and used to discover the Winter Soldiers at Hydra Siberian Facility, before executing them. 

### Working with the Confederacy

#### Preparations for the Apocalypse

 
As the only remaining high-ranking member of Hydra, R. Hale took the leadership of the organization and operated from the shadows to prepare for the impending alien invasion. With a constant communication with the alien alliance known as the Confederacy, specifically Qovas, Hale operated to provide him what he demanded, so he would protect Earth from the invasion, so she managed to get Gravitonium from the ship Principia for him. He also demanded Inhumans for an army, so Hale took adventage of her new position to hunt down the key S.H.I.E.L.D. agents following the failed assassination attempt on Glenn Talbot, which was seemingly done by them, and use them to track down Inhumans. 
 being held in General R. Hale's custody]] 
However, Hale wanted to alter the deal by showing Earth's strength. She planned to use the Project Destroyer of Worlds on Ruby Hale to make her the strongest person on Earth. She also surrounded herself with enhanced individuals, such as Carl Creel, Werner von Strucker, and Anton Ivanov, which was forced to build for her an army of Sleeper Mechs. Hale searched for the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents but found nothing. For a short period of time Hale had Leo Fitz in her custody only to loose him again. 

#### Return of S.H.I.E.L.D.

 attacking the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents]]
 
When R. Hale managed to capture Piper, they struck a deal to lure out the missing S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. By activating the Kree Beacon at St. Louis Aerospace Facility, Piper hoped the agents would come to investigate the signal. After months, the agents eventually came to the facility, where Piper was waiting for them. Ruby Hale and Sleeper Mechs attacked S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, as Yo-Yo Rodriguez's hands were cut off by Ruby and the agents escaped from the facility with the orb. Disappointed at her daughter, Hale activated the orb remotely to explode, hoping it would kill some of the agents. 
 stands with Carl Creel and Anton Ivanov]]
Hale and Candice Lee came to the town of River's End to track down the agents. They follow the lead of the mysterious Deke Shaw, but only found he was blood-related to Leo Fitz and Jemma Simmons. A few days later, the Sleeper Mechs at the Principia ship were reactivated when the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents were taking the renaming Gravitonium. Hale let herself and Carl Creel to be captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. as an attempt to speak with Phil Coulson. She was on Zephyr One when she convinced him that she was working to save humanity and to come with her so she would explain to him more. Anton Ivanov took Hale, Creel, and Coulson with a Quinjet to the HYDRA Preparatory Academy. Later, Hale was meeting Qovas to brief him, but he was not impressed and offered her Odium if ever she would fail. 
 brings Phil Coulson to meet with Qovas]]
Hale told Coulson that Hydra still existed and she was working with the Confederacy to prevent the galactic war from reaching the Earth. After they met with Qovas, Hale revealed to Coulson her true intentions and Ruby's part in her plan. However, now that she had doubts about her, she asked Coulson about Daisy Johnson. When Coulson learned that the name of the project was Project Destroyer of Worlds, he was suddenly horrified and claimed that S.H.I.E.L.D. had been in the future and had seen the outcome of her plans, which was the Destruction of Earth. Hale did not believe him, locked him in his room and showed him a broken Glenn Talbot, who had been in her custody for months and was tortured for not revealing the location of the Particle Infusion Chamber. 

#### Losing Everything

 attempts to recapture Glenn Talbot]]
 
R. Hale intended for Carl Creel to absorb the Gravitonium, but instead he had voices in his head of Franklin Hall and Ian Quinn. As Creel came to Phil Coulson's room to confront him, Coulson convinced him to escape the HYDRA Preparatory Academy with Glenn Talbot. Ruby Hale tried to stopped them, but Creel stayed behind while Coulson and Talbot escaped via the Phase Harmonic Teleportation Device. Ruby chased the two in the forest but encountered Quake, who was able to knock her out and escaped with the fugitives.
 fighting against Yo-Yo Rodriguez]]
Later, Werner von Strucker informed Ruby that he figured out how to make the Particle Infusion Chamber work. Ruby tricked her mother and locked her in her own room so she and Strucker could go to the Hydra Herefordshire Facility. There, Anton Ivanov and his Sleeper Mechs located Leo Fitz, Jemma Simmons and Yo-Yo Rodriguez in the room where the Particle Infusion Chamber was. The three took down the Sleeper Mechs and Rodriguez killed Ivanov. However, Ruby and Strucker came and force Fitz and Simmons to fix the Particle Infusion Chamber. When Talbot called his wife, Candice Lee was with her and manipulated her to activate Talbot's Faustus programming. 
 surrendering herself over to S.H.I.E.L.D.]] 
Talbot followed his new orders and tried to kidnap Robin Hinton from S.H.I.E.L.D., but he was stopped by them and the mission failed. Meanwhile, S.H.I.E.L.D. also invaded the HYDRA Preparatory Academy, so Hale took the advantage and surrender willingly to Daisy Johnson and Melinda May. She told them about Ruby's intention to infuse herself with Gravitonium, so they hurried to Hydra Herefordshire Facility. Once the Particle Infusion Chamber was fixed, Ruby got into it and infused herself with Gravitonium. However, she could not handle the pain, so Strucker stopped the process after 8% of the matter was infused.
 uses her powers for the first time]]
Hale, Johnson, and May came to the facility and tried to calm Ruby down, but she lost her composure due to hearing the voices in her head. She also had no control of her new powers, as she accidentally killed Strucker. As they were about to calm her down, Rodriguez cut Ruby's throat with her own Chakram. With the loss of her daughter and her rage against S.H.I.E.L.D., Hale went to meet Qovas and told him the Gravitonium was with S.H.I.E.L.D. 
 being crushed to death by Glenn Talbot]]
Hale was on Qovas' Ship and waited for the outcome of the Confederacy's invasion on the Lighthouse. Following the failure of the attack, Coulson entered her room and told her that Talbot had infused himself with the remaining Gravitonium. Hale learned from Talbot that the attack on Earth was by Thanos. When S.H.I.E.L.D. reached the ship, Talbot got angry, so Hale lied and blamed Coulson on that in order to save her life. After Johnson and May stormed the room and Talbot levitated Coulson in the air, Hale tried to activate Talbot's Faustus programming. However, Talbot had broken out of the programming and crushed Hale's body parts with his gravity powers and she was killed. 

### The Downfall of Hydra

Keeping true to its oath, Hydra would continue to operate following the death of R. Hale and the collapse of her Hydra cell, though they were scattered and a husk of its former self. Though most Hydra agents would go into hiding, join other causes, or try to abandon Hydra altogether, a few members of defunct Hydra cells would form new ones, trying to rebuild or at least continue the organization. The United States Armed Forces would continue to locate and apprehend Hydra agents, dismantling the new Hydra cells. 

In 2024, Bucky Barnes, having been pardoned by the U.S. government assisted them in locating Hydra members who had eluded capture, such as L. Atwood. 

By that summer, Hunting Hydra, a documentary about the search for Hydra members who were still active was produced. 

## Members

### 19th Century Members

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Thornally
|Lord
|Deceased
|-
|Manzini
|Lord
|Deceased
|-
|Younger Lord
|Lord
|Deceased
|-
|Nobleman
|Nobleman
|Deceased
|}

### World War II Era Members

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Johann Schmidt
|Leader
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Arnim Zola
|Scientist
|Deceased
|-
|Werner Reinhardt
|General
|Deceased
|-
|Lohmer
|Colonel
|Deceased
|-
|Kleiber
|Lieutenant
|Unknown
|-
|Hydra Lieutenant
|Lieutenant
|Unknown
|-
|Hydra Fortress Officer
|Lieutenant
|Unknown
|-
|Hydra Officer
|Lieutenant
|Unknown
|-
|Velt
|Weapons Facility Manager
|Deceased
|-
|Vincent Beckers
|Scientist
|Deceased
|-
|Heinz Kruger
|Assassin
|Deceased
|-
|Wolfgang Brenner
|Operative
|Unknown 
|}

### Modern Era Members

#### S.H.I.E.L.D. Cell

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Alexander Pierce
|High-Ranking Member, World Security Council Member, Politician, S.H.I.E.L.D. Leader, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Arnim Zola
|High-Ranking Member, Scientist, Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Jasper Sitwell
|High-Ranking Officer
|Deceased
|-
|Brock Rumlow
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Jack Rollins
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Daniel Lyons
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Lee
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Hauer
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Russo
|Executive Officer
|Deceased
|-
|Mitchell Carson
|Businessman, Head of Defense 
|Alive
|-
|Mark Basso
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Mark Smith
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Wonsik
|Operative/Project Insight
|Deceased
|-
|Sullivan
|Operative/Project Insight
|Alive
|-
|Lead Hydra Agent
|Soldier
|Deceased
|-
|Bobbitt
|Helicarrier Pilot
|Deceased
|}

#### Winter Soldier Program

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Vasily Karpov
|Program Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Bucky Barnes
|Assassin
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Josef
|Test Subject, Assassin
|Deceased
|-
|Super Soldier #2
|Test Subject, Assassin
|Deceased
|-
|Super Soldier #3
|Test Subject, Assassin
|Deceased
|-
||Super Soldier #4
|Test Subject, Assassin
|Deceased
|-
||Super Soldier #5
|Test Subject, Assassin
|Deceased
|-
||Wilfred Nagel
|Scientist
|Deceased
|-
|}

#### Centipede Project

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|John Garrett
|Project Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Raina
|Recruiter
|Deceased
|-
|Grant Ward
|High Ranking Member
|Deceased
|-
|Edison Po
|Soldier
|Deceased
|-
|Brian Hayward
|Test Subject, Soldier
|Deceased
|-
|Centipede Soldier 2
|Test Subject, Soldier
|In Custody
|-
|Centipede Soldier 3
|Test Subject, Soldier
|In Custody
|-
|Ian Quinn
|Scientist
|Deceased 
|-
|Debbie Hynes
|Doctor
|Deceased
|-
|Mehta
|Doctor
|Alive
|-
|Chan Ho Yin
|Test Subject
|Deceased
|-
|Akela Amador
|Coerced Agent
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Mike Peterson
|Coerced Agent
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Englishman
|Coerced Handler
|Deceased
|-
|Kaminsky
|Soldier
|Unknown
|-
|Ernesto
|Barber
|Alive
|-
|}

#### Malick Family's Cell and Hive Cult

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Hive
|Idol, Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Wilfred Malick
|High-Ranking Member, S.H.I.E.L.D. Officer, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Gideon Malick
|High-Ranking Member, World Security Council Member, Industrialist, Branch Leader
|Defected, Deceased
|-
|Nathaniel Malick
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Kirk Vogel
|High-Ranking Member, Inner Circle Member
|Deceased
|-
|Stephanie Malick
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|R. Giyera
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Lucio
|Brainwashed Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Turkish Old Man
|Security
|Alive
|}

#### Baron Strucker's Cell

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Baron Strucker
|High-Ranking Member, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|List
|High-Ranking Member, Scientist
|Deceased
|-
|Pietro Maximoff
|Test Subject and Operative
|Defected
|-
|Wanda Maximoff
|Test Subject and Operative
|Defected
|-
|Baden
|Scientist
|Inactive
|-
|Paula
|Operative
|Inactive
|-
|Carmine
|Operative
|Inactive
|-
|}

#### Daniel Whitehall's Cell

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Daniel Whitehall
|High-Ranking Member, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Sunil Bakshi
|High-Ranking Member
|Deceased
|-
|Marcus Scarlotti
|Soldier
|In Custody
|-
|Kara Palamas
|Brainwashed Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Grant Ward
|High-Ranking Operative
|Deceased, Defected
|-
|Lingenfelter
|Scientist
|Alive
|-
|Kenneth Turgeon
|Scientist
|Alive
|-
|Jemma Simmons
|Scientist (infiltrator) 
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Carl Creel
|Brainwashed Assassin
|Deceased, Defected
|-
|Donnie Gill
|Brainwashed Operative
|Unknown
|-
|Bobbi Morse
|Security (infiltrator) 
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Julien Beckers
|Politician
|In Custody
|-
|Toshiro Mori
|Engineer
|Deceased
|-
|Decker
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Theo
|Security
|Alive
|-
|}

#### Round Table

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Octavian Bloom
|High-Ranking Member, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Sheikh
|High-Ranking Member, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Baroness
|High-Ranking Member, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Banker
|High-Ranking Member, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|}

#### Grant Ward's Cell

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Grant Ward
|High-Ranking Member, Director, Branch Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Kebo
|High-Ranking Member, Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Werner von Strucker
|Operative
|Deceased, Defected 
|-
|Spud
|Recruiter
|Deceased
|-
|Tat
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Moe
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Lance Hunter
|Recruit (Infiltrator) 
|Alive, Defected
|-
|}

#### R. Hale's Cell

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|R. Hale
|High-Ranking Member, United States Armed Forces Officer, Leader
|Deceased
|-
|Ruby Hale
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Candice Lee
|Operative
|Alive
|-
|Carl Creel
|Operative
|Deceased, Defected
|-
|Anton Ivanov
|Coerced Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Werner von Strucker
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Luke
|Scientist
|Alive
|-
|Glenn Talbot
|Brainwashed Operative
|Deceased, Defected
|}

#### Project: Ultimo's Cell

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" | Name
! scope="col" |Position 
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Hydra Commander
|High-Ranking Member, Division Leader
|In Custody
|-
|}

#### Others

{| class="article-table" style="width: 100%;" border="0" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1"
! scope="col" |Name
! scope="col" |Position
! scope="col" |Status
|-
|Fischer
|High-Ranking Member, United States Armed Forces Officer
|Deceased
|-
|Stern
|Politician
|In Custody
|-
|L. Atwood
|Politician
|In Custody
|-
|Jensen
|Scientist
|In Custody
|-
|Joseph Getty
|Scientist
|Alive, Defected
|-
|Hydra Buyer
|Operative
|Deceased
|-
|Yuri Zaikin
|Operative
|In Custody
|-
|Viktor Orlov
|Operative
|In Custody
|-
|Steger
|Professor
|Deceased
|-
|Jules Beckers
|Operative
|Unknown
|-
|Alejandro Castillo
|Drug Lord Associate
|Deceased
|-
|}

## Facilities

 

### World War II

*Hydra Headquarters
*Hydra Base Camp C3
*Hydra Fortress
*Hydra Research Facility Number 4
*Hydra U-Base
*Castle Kaufmann
 

### Modern Era

*Malick Mansion
*Goldbrix Tavern
*Hydra Research Base
*Hydra Laboratories
*Hydra Castle
*Ideal Federal Savings Bank
*Grant Ward's Hydra Warehouse
*Schoonebeek Oil Field
*Hydra Siberian Facility
*HYDRA Preparatory Academy
*Hydra Herefordshire Facility

#### Taken from S.H.I.E.L.D.

*North Institute
*Treehouse
*Sandbox
*Barbershop Headquarters
*S.H.I.E.L.D. East African Headquarters
 

## Equipment

### Weapons

#### World War II Era Weapons

 ]]
 
Before and during World War II, soldiers of Hydra could rely on standard weapons used by the armed forces of Nazi Germany but also on several extremely advanced weapons developed by Hydra's scientists.

=

#### Pistols and Handguns
=
* : All officers of Hydra were armed with the standard pistol used by members of the armed forces of Nazi Germany.
* : This pistol was mainly used by Hydra's assassins like Heinz Kruger.

=

#### Submachine Guns
=
* : Since Hydra's foundation and until the end of the war, soldiers of Hydra used the MP 40 submachine gun. Captain America: Super Soldier concept art MP 40 

=

#### Shotguns
=
*Merkel S12ga Shotgun: Used only by select Hydra units under the command of Baron Strucker. Captain America: Super Soldier concept art Shotgun 

=

#### Rifles
=
* : Although it was mainly used by the Wehrmacht, the was also used by Hydra's sharpshooters. Captain America: Super Soldier concept art Mauser Karabiner 
*Zolanator 2000X Assault Rifle: An assault rifle developed by Arnim Zola. It was a heavily modified variant of the StG-44, and fired conventional ammunition as opposed to energy bolts. It was used by the Hydra troops and by the Howling Commandos.

=

#### Explosives
=
* : Standard hand grenade.

=

#### Special Weapons
=
*Hydra Pistol: Similar in design to the Luger P08, this pistol was mainly used by the Red Skull.
*Arnimhilation 99L Assault Weapon: One of many weapons developed by Arnim Zola after the discovery of the Tesseract, this rifle could fire energy pulses that could disintegrate enemy soldiers with one shot.
*Hydra Heavy Assault Rifle: One of the Tesseract-powered weapons developed by Dr. Zola after 1942.
*Hydra Cannon: A pulse cannon mainly used on Hydra's heavier vehicles.
*Hydra Flamethrower: One of the few advanced weapons developed before the discovery of the Tesseract, the flamethrower was mainly used on Hydra's mini tanks.

#### Modern Weapons

 
By the beginning of the 21st century, thanks to its infiltration of S.H.I.E.L.D., Hydra could rely on all weapons available to S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. All sorts of rifles, machine guns, handguns, and heavy weapons could be found in Hydra's arsenal. After the Battle of New York, Hydra's scientists got their hands on numerous Chitauri weapons, greatly upgrading and expanding Hydra's already powerful arsenal.

=

#### Pistols and Handguns
=
* : Main sidearm of Hydra operatives, such as the security guards at the Hydra Laboratories , Arctic Hydra Research Facility, and Gideon Malick's estate.
*Heckler & Koch HK45: Primary sidearm of Grant Ward while he led his own faction of Hydra.
*Smith & Wesson M&P: Main sidearm of Hydra moles within S.H.I.E.L.D. and used by Grant Ward while working for Daniel Whitehall.
*Tokyo Marui Strike Warrior: Primary sidearm of Hydra moles within the ATCU, such as R. Giyera.
*Glock 17: Used by Hydra assassins sent to kill Nick Fury, by Marcus Scarlotti's mercenaries, by Hydra soldiers on Maveth, and by Gideon Malick's agents at the Symposium on Alien Contagion. Malick's men had their guns personalized so that only a person with the correct fingerprint could use them.
*Glock 19: Main sidearm of STRIKE commandos and also used by Brock Rumlow.
*Arsenal Strike One: Used by terrorists working under Grant Ward's faction.
*Beretta 92FS: Used by terrorists working under Grant Ward's faction.
*SIG-Sauer P226: Used by the Winter Soldier, Brock Rumlow, and Hydra moles in S.H.I.E.L.D. 
*M1911A1: Used by STRIKE commandos during the Battle of Washington, D.C..
*SIG-Sauer P220ST: Primary sidearm of the Winter Soldier and used to fire at Captain America.
*COP .357 Derringer: Used by the Winter Soldier to fire at Captain America.
*Intratec-TEC 38: Carried by the Winter Soldier in his thigh holster.
*Smith & Wesson M&P Compact: Used by Grant Ward shortly after revealing his true loyalty.
*Heckler & Koch P7: Used by the Hydra Buyer to threaten Hope van Dyne.

=

#### Submachine Guns
=
* : Standard firearm for Hydra operatives, such as those sent to capture Donnie Gill in Casablanca and those sent to extract Sunil Bakshi from his undercover mission.
* : Used by Hydra assassins like the Winter Soldier.
* : Used by Hydra assassins who attempted to kill Nick Fury.
*MAC-10: Used by Hydra assassins who attempted to kill Nick Fury.
*Heckler & Koch MP5K: Used by R. Giyera with telekinesis in an attempt to kill Daisy Johnson; stored in compound outside the Hydra Castle and the arsenals of Grant Ward's Hydra Warehouse.
*Heckler & Koch MP5A3: Used by operatives guarding the compound in and around the Hydra Castle.

=

#### Assault Rifles/Carbines
=
* : Standard assault rifle for Hydra moles in S.H.I.E.L.D., such as STRIKE operatives stationed at the Triskelion and agents on the Iliad. Also used by Hydra assassins who attempted to eliminate Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon, as well as Nick Fury.
* : Standard assault rifle for Hydra moles in STRIKE. Also used by Hydra soldiers during the assassination attempt on Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon, and the Raid of the Fridge.
*Steyr AUG A3: Used by STRIKE commando Brock Rumlow.
* : Used by Hydra agents in Sokovia at the Hydra Research Base.
*AK-12: Used by Hydra soldiers stationed in Sokovia at the Hydra Research Base.
*AK-74: Used by Hydra soldiers stationed in Sokovia at the Hydra Research Base.
*AN-94: Used by Hydra soldiers stationed in Sokovia at the Hydra Research Base.
* : Used by Hydra soldiers during the Raid of the Fridge and the battle at Cybertek, as well as by assassins attempting to kill Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon.
* : Used by assassins who attempted to kill Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon.
*Colt Law Enforcement Carbine: Used by Marcus Scarlotti's team during their attack on the U.N.
*SCAR-L: Used by Hydra soldiers during the expedition to Maveth.

=

#### Sniper Rifles
=
*Barrett M82A1M: Used by the Winter Soldier as seen in an archived photograph; also stored at the Hydra Research Base in Sokovia.
*Steyr IWS 2000: Used by the Winter Soldier used to shoot Nick Fury while the latter was hiding in Captain America's apartment (based on ballistics).
*Remington MSR: Used by Grant Ward to assassinate Rosalind Price.

=

#### Machine Guns
=
*M134 Minigun: Used by assassins who attempted to kill Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon.
*General Dynamics GAU-17/A: Used by Quinjet Pilots to fire at various targets, such as Falcon; also mounted under the cockpit of Hydra Quadcopters.
*General Dynamics M197 Vulcan: Used by Kaminsky in a S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicopter to fire at the Fridge.
*Phalanx CIWS: Mounted on the Project Insight Helicarriers and seen firing at Falcon.
*DShKM: Used by the perimeter guards at the Hydra Research Base to fire at the Avengers.
*PKM: Used by the perimeter guards at the Hydra Research Base to fire at the Avengers.
*M2 Browning: Used by the perimeter guards at the Hydra Research Base to fire at the Avengers.

=

#### Launchers
=
*Milkor MGL Mk 1L: Used by the Winter Soldier during the Battle of Washington, D.C.
*M203 Grenade Launcher: Mounted on Colt M4A1 carbines; used by assassins like the Winter Soldier.
*FN Mk 13: Used by the Winter Soldier to fire custom disc grenades.
*M136 AT4: Used by a STRIKE commando on board a Project Insight Helicarrier.
*SAGE Control Ordnance Deuce Revolution: Used by a commando to fire a flashbang grenade.
*LAW 80: Stored at the Hydra Research Base in Sokovia.

=

#### Explosives
=
*M67 Fragmentation Grenade: Carried by STRIKE operatives.
*Mk 2 Hand Grenade: Stored in the crates and arsenals of Grant Ward's Hydra Warehouse. 
*Disc Grenade: An explosive anti-vehicle device that disables vehicles by magnetically adhering to their undercarriage and detonating after being attached; used by the Winter Soldier.
*Customized RGN Hand Grenade: Deployed by the Winter Soldier in an attempt to kill Black Widow.
*40mm Grenade: Ammunition for the M203 and Milkor MGL Mk 1L.

=

#### Special Weapons
=
*Splinter Bomb: Used by Marcus Scarlotti and his team in their attack on the U.N. and the S.H.I.E.L.D. Safe House. It continues to be a popular assassination weapon for many operatives.
*Chitauri Guns: Main firearm used by operatives working under Doctor Jensen.
*Antiaircraft Guns: Used at the Hydra Research Base; several varieties, such as the man-operated anti-aircraft batteries or the automated bunker-mounted sentry guns. Reverse-engineered from captured Chitauri technology after the Battle of New York.
*Hydra H3L-A Energy Rifle: Reverse-engineered from captured Chitauri technology after the Battle of New York.
*Pulse Grenade: Used by Hydra soldiers during the Battle at Calvin Zabo's Building to stun Lincoln Campbell and Deathlok.

=

#### Blades & Melee Weapons
=
*Taser Rod: Used by STRIKE commandos to subdue and stun targets
*Protecop BOSH007 Anti-Riot Shield: Used by STRIKE commandos for personal protection against thrown debris and small-caliber bullets.
*Gerber Mark II BA9: Used by the Winter Soldier during hand-to-hand combat with Captain America.
*Gerber Yari II: Used by the Winter Soldier during hand-to-hand combat with Captain America.
*Cold Steel G.I. Tanto: Sheathed as part of the Winter Soldier's loadout.
*Benchmade SOCP: Sheathed as part of the Winter Soldier's loadout.
*Rope Dart Knife: Marcus Scarlotti's close quarters combat weapon of choice.
*Chakram: Ruby Hale's blades of choice.

### Vehicles

#### World War II Era Vehicles

 used by Hydra]]
Thanks to the scientists like Arnim Zola, members of Hydra could rely on all kinds of advanced vehicles.
*Hydra Mini Tank: an armored vehicle equipped with flamethrowers. 
*Hydra Armored Personnel Carrier: a regular vehicle used to transport troops.
*Hydra Truck: a regular vehicle used to transport troops and equipment.
*Focke-Wulf Triebflügel: a high-advanced rocket plane used by the Red Skull to escaped Hydra Base Camp C3.
*Hydra Exo-Skeleton: a suit powered by an Arc Reactor.
*Fieser Dorsch: a mini submarine used by undercover agents working overseas.
*Landkreuzer: the biggest tank in Hydra's arsenal.
*Hydra Parasit: a flying atomic bomb.
*Lindworm-5 Motorcycle: a unique concept motorcycle. 
* : an armored car.
*Leviathan: a variant of the Type VII U-boat. 
*Valkyrie: A flying-wing style airplane armed with Tesseract-powered cannons.
*Schnellzug EB912: An armored transport train system for ferrying supplies and personnel between various Hydra bases.

#### Modern Vehicles

*Chevrolet Impala: Police version used by Hydra moles within the Metropolitan Police Department sent to kill Nick Fury.
*Ford E-150: Armored SWAT version used by Hydra moles within the Metropolitan Police Department sent to kill Nick Fury.
*Chevrolet Suburban: Used by STRIKE commandos for transport.
*Hummer H2: Used by Russian Hydra assassins to chase and attack Captain America, Black Widow, Falcon, and Jasper Sitwell.
*Streit Spartan APC: An armored personnel carrier used by STRIKE commandos for transport.
*Alpine Armoring Pit-Bull VX: Used by STRIKE commandos to transport Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon after their arrest, along with an undercover Maria Hill.
*Jankel Fox LRPV: Armored military long-range patrol vehicle; found at the Hydra Research Base.
*Jankel Pegasus: Armored military special operations vehicle; found at the Hydra Research Base.
*Land Rover Wolf 110 WMIK: Armored military transport with Weapon Mount Installation Kit; found at the Hydra Research Base.
*Steyr-Daimler-Puch Pinzgauer: An all-terrian 4x4 military transport truck; found at the Hydra Research Base.
*Kamaz Typhoon: A Russian Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle seen in Hydra's fleet.
 
*Hydra Tank: A series of heavily modified Russian vehicles; including T-80 main battle tanks and BMP-1 infantry fighting vehicles. They were upgraded with Chitauri technology, and used against the Avengers.
*Quinjet: A fan-in-wing VTOL aircraft taken from S.H.I.E.L.D.
*Bell AH-1 Cobra: A heavily armed attack helicopter used by Hydra to attack a S.H.I.E.L.D. base.
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Jump Jet: A plane used by Hydra agent John Garrett.
*S.H.I.E.L.D. 6-1-6: a modified Boeing C-17 Globemaster III temporarily used by John Garrett's Hydra branch.
*Maribel del Mar: A regular cargo ship.
*Project Insight Helicarriers: Three next-generation, heavily armed helicarriers intended to be used to kill political opponents and dissidents, and crush resistance movements who would oppose Hydra's plans.
*Lemurian Star: A mobile satellite launch platform; used to send the Project Insight targeting satellites into low-Earth orbit.
*Hydra QuadCopter: Cargo tiltrotor aircraft.

### Uniforms

#### World War II Era Uniforms

 
*Hydra SS Uniform: As the SS division, Hydra mostly used the standard grey and black uniforms of the Schutzstaffel. They also used the standard German . Their ranks insignia was identical to that of the SS. However, to distinguish themselves from other SS units, they wore Hydra badges on their caps and collars, instead of the SS rune patches and Totenkopf badges. They also had Hydra patches on the upper parts of their sleeves and cuff titles with Gothic style script on the lower parts. However, their uniforms lacked the Reichsadler patch on the left sleeve. Some members of Hydra also used armbands similar to those of the Nazi party. However, their armbands had the Hydra logo instead of the swastika. Some officers continued to use their black SS uniforms until the end of the war. 

*Hydra Uniform: After 1943, soldiers of Hydra adopted new, futuristic, dark-green uniforms. The same uniform, but in black, was used by Hydra's special troops and the crew of the Valkyrie. 

#### Modern Uniforms

 
By the 2010s, Hydra mostly used standard combat camouflage uniforms that were used by almost every army in the world. If the situation required, Hydra's agents would masquerade themselves as civilians or policemen to easily approach and eliminate their targets. 

### Methods/Techniques

 
*World War II Methods/Techniques: Before and during World War II, Hydra scientists used certain methods to brainwash their soldiers and prisoners.
**Experimentation: Scientists like Arnim Zola would experiment on unwilling test subjects such as Sergeant James "Bucky" Barnes. 
*Modern Methods/Techniques
**Faustus: Hydra scientists, such Dr. Daniel Whitehall and others, were able to indoctrinate gifted individuals such Carl Creel, Agent 33, and Donnie Gill. 
**Graduation Ceremony: Hydra's examination for new recruits to eliminate their weakness of attachment, making them completely loyal to the organization. The new recruits had to kill their own dog to pass the test. The technique was executed at the HYDRA Preparatory Academy, and by John Garrett to test Grant Ward. 

## Hydra Projects

*Winter Soldier Program (1940s-2016)
*Project Destroyer of Worlds (1990-2018)
*Project Deathlok (1990-2014)
*Project Distant Star Return (2001-2016)
*Centipede Project (2010-2013)
*Project Insight (2012-2014)
*Project Ultimo (2015)

## Symbols

### Ancient Symbols

 
Maveth HYDRA statue 2.png|The statue of Hive's true form built by Hive's worshipers on Maveth. 
 

#### Fourth century B.C.

 
H unknown year.png
MHOT HYDRA symbol.png|Upside-down variant used as inspiration for the modern Hydra symbol.
 

#### 800 - 1200

 
H 800 - 1200.png
 

#### 1280 - 1700

 
H 1280 - 1700.png
H 1483.png|1483 The seal of . It used the Hydra Ancient Symbol on a shield. The Latin inscriptions on the seal are: "ET ID LUCEM EX TENEBRIS," which translates as: "May the light come from darkness." 
 

#### 1800s

 
H 1827 - 1829.png|1827 - 1829
H 1827 - 1829 UD.png|Upside down variant used as inspiration for the Project Distant Star Return logo.
H 1800s.png|Symbol carved on a door inside the Hydra Castle.
 

### Modern Symbols

 
Hydra logo.png|The symbol inspired by Hive's true form. The tentacles represent Hydra's invasive reach. This variant was used on Hydra's black flag and green uniforms. Also used on Johann Schmidt Hydra longcoat.
H alternate 4.PNG|The symbol used on Hydra's vehicles and radio equipment during World War II.
H alternate 3.png|The symbol originally used on the red armbands of Hydra officers stationed at Hydra Base Camp C3. It was also used on the uniforms of Lindworm-5 Motorcycle drivers during World War II. In the 21st century, it was displayed on the wall of Daniel Whitehall's office in Hydra Laboratories. It can also be seen on Hydra's computers and uniforms of some scientists, like Doctor Jensen. After the War on Hydra, it was used by Gideon Malick's cell.
HYDRA Framework Black On White.png|The symbol embedded on Arnimhilation 99L Assault Weapons.
Whitehall HYDRA WWII.png|The symbol used by Werner Reinhardt's Hydra cell during World War II. In the 21st century, it was used on the Maribel del Mar and later by Gideon Malick's cell.
Hydra Framework.png|The symbol used on Vasily Karpov's files about the Winter Soldier Program.
Barbershop Hydra logo.png|The symbol used on the computers on the Bus and in the Barbershop Headquarters.
Hydra Bus logo.png|The symbol used on the computers on the Bus and inside the Hydra Castle.
H alternate.PNG|The symbol mostly used on Hydra's modern-day combat uniforms. It can be also seen on the walls of Hydra Laboratories. Also used on Vasily Karpov's files about the Winter Soldier Program.
H alternate 5.png|The symbol used on body bags.
Ward's Hydra logo.png|The symbol used by Grant Ward's Hydra cell.
Zola Symbol.png|The digitized symbol generated by Dr. Arnim Zola's computerized mind under Camp Lehigh.
HYDRA stamp Capitol.png|This symbol appeared in the archive accessed by the preserved mind of Dr. Arnim Zola. The center features the traditional Hydra skull & tentacles, while the next circle of text written in German and in Blackletter font reads "Hydra Department by appointment of the Führer". The text in the peripheral circle reads, from the top left and going clockwise: "Power. Truth. Determination. Strength."
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for Hydra
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
* (flashback) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned; alternate timeline) 
* (mentioned; alternate timeline) 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (logo) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned; alternate universe) 
** (logo & mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (flashback) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned; deleted scene) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (logo) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (files) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 

In an indefinite temporality:
* (footage) 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
* (flashback) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (logo) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
** (logo & mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (flashback) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned; deleted scene) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (logo) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (files) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Hydra began as the Brotherhood of the Spear, the Eastern counterpart of the Western Brotherhood of the Shield. The modern organization was reorganized by Baron Strucker in the Japanese-occupied territory in the middle of World War II.
**In the comics, the Hydra Oath is "Hail, Hydra! Immortal Hydra! We shall never be destroyed! Cut off a limb, and two more shall take its place! We serve none but the Master—as the world shall soon serve us! Hail Hydra!" In Captain America: The First Avenger, the oath was shortened and changed to "Cut off one head, two more shall take its place! Hail Hydra!"
**The original oath is referenced in the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. episode Turn, Turn, Turn when Phil Coulson, John Garrett and Leo Fitz argue whether is it head or limb:
 
*Hydra's abandonment of the Nazi cause is more elaborated in a deleted scene from Captain America: The First Avenger where a Landkreuzer fires at regular German troops before it captures the future Howling Commandos. However, that scene contradicts the events of Captain America: First Vengeance where Hydra still works for the Nazis after the imprisonment of the Howling Commandos.
*With its pivotal roles in both the films and the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. television series, Hydra is currently the most recurring antagonistic force featured in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
*Among the events shown in Captain America: The Winter Soldier to illustrate how Hydra fed crisis in the world was the , the of , the , The real, subversive politics of 'Captain America: The Winter Soldier' Best And Worst Of ‘Captain America: The Winter Soldier’ the , and the , as seen when Arnim Zola gives his speech to Steve Rogers and Natasha Romanoff.

## Behind the Scenes

*For Captain America: The First Avenger, artist Ryan Meinerding and Charlie Wen wanted to play tribute to Hydra's role in the comics by incorporating the signature 'H' from the comics into the uniforms in the film and were able to by using the straps and harness used to support the Tesseract technology. 
*According to artist Ryan Meinerding, it took a long time to design the Hydra logo. Meinerding stated "I tried adding the suction cups to the tentacles and having the negative shapes they created to look like gears. Since Hydra is all about advance weaponry and machinery, the gear theme seemed to fit." 
*Bob appears in the production as a henchman of Ajax and an acquaintance of Deadpool. Since Bob is an agent of Hydra in the comics, Marvel Studios own the cinematic rights to him. However, Fox were able to include him in the film by making no reference to his connection to Hydra. ‘Deadpool’ Used This Marvel Character Without Permission 

## References

 }}

## External Links

* 
* 
es:HYDRA
fr:HYDRA
pt-br:HIDRA
ru:ГИДРА
uk:Гідра
Category:Hydra
Category:Organizations
Category:Confederacy