Relics Concentrated Ingots Elemental Crystals Magical Stones 
|creator = Big Bang Wanda Maximoff † (recreated Mind Stone) 
|owners = Thanos †
|users = Celestials *Eson Asgardians *Loki Laufeyson † *Thor Odinson *Heimdall † Masters of the Mystic Arts *Agamotto *Cagliostro *Ancient One † *Stephen Strange Hydra *Johann Schmidt *Arnim Zola † *Wolfgang von Strucker † *List † Mar-Vell † Carol Danvers (power source) Goose Nova Corps S.H.I.E.L.D. *Erik Selvig *Natasha Romanoff † *Hawkeye Dark Elves *Malekith † Jane Foster † Wanda Maximoff † (power amplification) Pietro Maximoff † (power source) Carina † Ronan † Guardians of the Galaxy *Peter Quill *Gamora † *Drax *89P13 Tony Stark † Bruce Banner Ultron † Vision † Thanos † Vision †
|movie = Iron Man 2 (drawing) Thor (post-credits scene) Captain America: The First Avenger The Avengers Thor: The Dark World Captain America: The Winter Soldier (mid-credits scene) Guardians of the Galaxy Avengers: Age of Ultron Captain America: Civil War Doctor Strange Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (mentioned) Thor: Ragnarok Avengers: Infinity War Captain Marvel Avengers: Endgame Spider-Man: Far From Home (poster) Spider-Man: No Way Home (mentioned) Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (flashbacks & mentioned) Thor: Love and Thunder (replicas) Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 (mentioned) Deadpool & Wolverine
|oneshot = Team Thor: Part 1 (drawing) 
|tv series = Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (vision) WandaVision Loki What If...? Hawkeye (mentioned) Ms. Marvel (mentioned) She-Hulk: Attorney at Law (props) Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man Marvel Zombies
|game = The Avengers - The Mobile Game LEGO Marvel's Avengers What If...? – An Immersive Story
|theme park = Avengers Campus
|comic = 
|book = The Avengers: Battle Against Loki Thor: The Dark World (indirectly mentioned) Guardians of the Galaxy: The Junior Novel (indirectly mentioned) Avengers: Age of Ultron: The Junior Novel Avengers: Age of Ultron: Friends and Foes Avengers: Age of Ultron: Avengers Save the Day Avengers: Age of Ultron: Battle at Avengers Tower Phase Two: Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy Phase Two: Marvel's Avengers: Age of Ultron Captain America: Civil War: Captain America Versus Iron Man Captain America: Civil War: We Are The Avengers Doctor Strange: The Path to Enlightenment Phase Three: Marvel's Captain America: Civil War Guardians of the Galaxy Read-Along Storybook and CD Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2: The Junior Novel (mentioned) Phase Three: Marvel's Doctor Strange Spider-Man: Homecoming: The Tangled Web of Super Tech Phase Three: Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (mentioned) Thor: The Dark World Read-Along Storybook Thor: Ragnarok: The Junior Novel (mentioned) Avengers: Infinity War: The Heroes' Journey The Cosmic Quest Volume Two: Aftermath (illusion) The Wakanda Files: A Technological Exploration of the Avengers and Beyond Avengers: Endgame William Shakespeare's Avengers: The Complete Works Look Out for the Little Guy! (mentioned) 
|status = Destroyed Active (alternate versions) }}
 
The Infinity Stones were six immensely powerful gem-like objects tied to different aspects of the universe, created by the Big Bang from six singularities. 

Only beings of immense power can directly wield the Stones, such as Celestials, and the Mad Titan Thanos. Lesser beings would face dire consequences: Johann Schmidt was cursed to Vormir to guard the Soul Stone after touching an active Tesseract, Jane Foster became ill after being exposed to the Aether, Carina exploded when she touched the Power Stone; however, these effects can be reduced if a group is sharing the power among themselves. It is also possible to place an Infinity Stone (or multiple) inside a container to allow the user to wield the Stone's power without suffering the normal repercussions. Examples include the Space Stone inside the Tesseract, the Mind Stone inside the Scepter and later in Vision's forehead, the Power Stone inside the Orb and later the Universal Weapon, the Time Stone inside the Eye of Agamotto, the Reality Stone as the Aether, and all of the Infinity Stones housed in the Infinity Gauntlet.

When Thanos successfully collected all of them, he used their phenomenal powers to annihilate half of all living creatures in the universe. He later used the stones' power to reduce them to atoms, as to prevent his work from being undone and to keep himself or anyone else from abusing their power.

Five years later, the Avengers traveled back in time to retrieve the stones from alternate timelines in order to resurrect the victims of the Snap. After the Battle of Earth, Captain America returned the stones to their respective timelines.

## History

### Creation

 
Before the universe began, six singularities existed. The Big Bang then formed concentrated crystals out of them and sent the six stones hurtling throughout the universe. Each stone represented a different aspect of the universe (Space, Mind, Reality, Power, Time, and Soul). 

### Weapon of the Celestials

 
 uses the Power Stone to destroy an entire planet]]
In the distant past, the Power Stone was used by the Celestials as a means of placing judgment upon worlds and their populaces, wiping out entire civilizations by touching its power on the planet's surface. However, the stone was just as dangerous to its handler as it was to the societies against which it was used, as its insufficiently powerful handlers were destroyed by its power. 

### First Dark Elf Conflict

 attempts to use the Aether's power]]
 
Malekith, the leader of the Dark Elves sought to use the Aether to revert the universe to its prior state of eternal darkness, recementing his kind as the most dominant race in the universe. They were opposed by the Asgardians under the command of their king, Bor, who fought a protracted war, eventually forcing the Dark Elves to retreat to their home world, Svartalfheim, where the final battle was fought. In one last, desperate move, Malekith dropped the Dark Elf air fleet onto the battlefield, wiping out scores of Asgardians and Dark Elves, including his wife and son.
Malekith took advantage of the ensuing chaos to escape on the remaining ship, with his lieutenant Algrim and several dozen other warriors, entering a state of hibernation until the time of the next Convergence, when Malekith intended to make another attempt at total conquest.
 orders that the Aether be hidden away]]
Believing the Dark Elves completely defeated, Bor was left to decide what was to be done with the Aether. Knowing it was too powerful to be destroyed, his ordered it buried deep enough that it could never be found again. The order was carried out, and the Aether remained untouched for 5,000 years. 

### World War II

 creates weapons with the Tesseract]]
 
During World War II, Johann Schmidt became fascinated by tales of ancient mythical powers and decided to locate the Tesseract to discover its true power. In 1942, Schmidt invaded Tønsberg and found the Tesseract in a box hidden behind a sculptured mural of Yggdrasil, the world tree. Schmidt took the Tesseract back to Hydra Headquarters to be experimented on by Arnim Zola. Schmidt and Zola were able to harness the Tesseract's power to create and fuel their weapons of war.
 teleporting Red Skull to Vormir]]
In March 1945, Schmidt intended to use the Tesseract-powered Valkyrie and its flying energy bombs to attack the United States of America. However, Schmidt was confronted by Captain America and the Howling Commandos who aimed to stop him. During the battle, Rogers damaged the machine that was using the Tesseract to power the Valkyrie. Angered, Schmidt physically handled the Tesseract, burning his hand. As punishment for abusing the power of an Infinity Stone for selfish gain, the Tesseract opened a portal leading to the far-off planet of Vormir and banished Schmidt to remain there. 
 is found by Howard Stark]]
With Schmidt believed dead, the Tesseract fell while burning through the floors of the Valkyrie, causing it to plunge into the sea below. Sometime later, it was recovered by Howard Stark, CEO of Stark Industries and a member of the Strategic Scientific Reserve, who was attempting to locate his friend Captain America. Stark had the Tesseract locked away with the SSR where it was kept and studied for the next seventy years. 

### Kree-Skrull War

 used as an energy core]]
 
Understanding that the Kree brought only misery to the Skrulls during the Kree-Skrull War, the Kree scientist, Mar-Vell, intended to help a group of Skrull refugees led by Talos, to find a new home away from Kree oppression. Mar-Vell impersonated as a human named Dr. Wendy Lawson and worked for the United States Air Force on Project P.E.G.A.S.U.S. in order to harness the power of the Tesseract to develop a Light-Speed Engine. The pilots Carol Danvers and Maria Rambeau were unknowingly testing the engine in test flights. At the time the Tesseract was stored on Mar-Vell's Laboratory, located in Earth's orbit.
 is exposed to the Space Stone]]
One day, Mar-Vell and Danvers on a test flight of the Light-Speed Engine were attacked by Starforce and shot-down. The two crashed and Mar-Vell revealed herself to Danvers as a Kree and her motives with the engine and urged her to not let the Kree acquire it. Mar-Vell was shot and killed by Starforce commander, Yon-Rogg, who was then about to kill Danvers as well, but she shot the engine and destroyed it, creating an energy explosion. Danvers absorbed the Tesseract's energy during the explosion and gained superhuman abilities. Yon-Rogg then took her as Kree prisoner to Hala, erasing her memories in the process and giving her a blood transfusion.
 being vomited up by Goose]]
After six years, when Danvers returned to Earth, she joined forces with Nick Fury from S.H.I.E.L.D. and learned the truth about the Kree-Skrull War from Talos after she regained some of her memories. Wanting to assist Talos' people, Danvers and Fury flew to Mar-Vell's laboratory to retrieve the Tesseract. When they found it and the Skrulls, the Starforce arrived and tried to take the Tesseract. Fury fled to Earth with the Skrulls and the Tesseract, which had been swallowed by the Flerken, Goose. Following Danvers' victory over the Kree, she left Earth with the Skrulls, letting Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. keep the Tesseract, which Goose vomited up on Fury's desk. ∆

### Chitauri Invasion

 transports Loki to Earth]]
 
In 2012, after his defeat at the hands of Thor, Loki came into contact with the alien race known as the Chitauri, and their master, Thanos, who had already been seeking the Tesseract. Loki promised to retrieve it from Earth and give it to Thanos in exchange for his army. Through manipulation of the Tesseract's energy, Thanos teleported Loki to the Tesseract's location at the Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility.
 is put under the control of Loki by the Mind Stone]]
Thanos also provided Loki with a Scepter containing the Mind Stone. Once Loki arrived on Earth, he found a team of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who had been experimenting with the Tesseract's power. Loki used the power of the Scepter to defeat them all, before putting Clint Barton, Erik Selvig, and several other S.H.I.E.L.D. agents under his complete control, ordering them to kill Nick Fury and steal the Tesseract for him. Selvig continued to experiment on the Tesseract in order to learn how to open a large sustainable portal.
 unwittingly holds the Scepter]]
When Loki was captured by S.H.I.E.L.D., the Scepter fell into their hands and was experimented on by Tony Stark and Bruce Banner. However, the Mind Stone's power proved more subtle and began to infect the Avengers personally, making them more doubtful and causing a large argument between them that only ended when Banner realized that he had been unwittingly made to pick up the Scepter. During the Attack on the Helicarrier, Loki regained the Scepter, which he used to murder Phil Coulson before escaping.
 opens a portal between worlds]]
Selvig used the Tesseract and Stark Tower to create a portal above New York City which allowed Loki's army to pour through and attack, beginning the Chitauri Invasion. With hordes of Chitauri and Leviathans charging through the portal, only the Avengers stood in their way. Loki tried and failed to control Iron Man with the Scepter. Eventually, Black Widow was able to close the portal using the Scepter while Iron Man destroyed the Chitauri Command Center with an Atomic Bomb before Loki was captured by the team.
 is handed over to Asgard]]
While Loki was taken back to Asgard with Thor to await punishment by their father Odin, the Tesseract was handed over to Thor to be kept away from the World Security Council. Thor and Loki used the cube to teleport themselves back to Asgard before Thor handed it over to Heimdall who used its power to rebuild the Bifrost Bridge, which had been destroyed during the Duel at the Rainbow Bridge, finally allowing Thor and the other Asgardians to be transported across the Nine Realms with ease once again. 

### Second Dark Elf Conflict

 finally regains the Aether]]
 
As the Convergence began across the Nine Realms, Jane Foster accidentally discovered and became infected with the Aether, alerting the Dark Elves to its presence. Malekith waged war against Asgard, who were protecting Foster, to regain the Aether. Eventually Foster came to Svartalfheim where Malekith reclaimed the Aether and absorbed it.
 unleashes the Aether's power]]
Malekith took the Aether to Earth where he attempted to use its power to convert the entire universe into eternal darkness. Thor also returned to Earth where he confronted the leader of the Dark Elves. Malekith used the Aether to battle Thor across worlds during the Convergence until eventually, they became separated and Malekith unleashed the Aether's power. Thor and Erik Selvig were able to destroy Malekith before he could complete his plans.
 is given to the Collector]]
The Aether was soon regained by Asgard who decided that it was too dangerous to keep two Infinity Stones so close together, so they kept the Tesseract where it was and decided to relocate the Aether. Eventually, Sif and Volstagg decided to hand the Aether over to Taneleer Tivan, who vowed to keep it safe within the Collector's Museum. However, once the Asgardians left, Tivan revealed his intent to locate the other five stones for his collection. 

### Hydra's Experiments

 with the Scepter]]
 
While the Tesseract was taken to Asgard, the Scepter remained on Earth where it fell into the hands of Hydra's leader Wolfgang von Strucker. In Hydra's hands, Strucker and List began experimenting with giving normal humans gifts via the Scepter's power, and, in the process, killing everyone except for Pietro and Wanda Maximoff, who were granted incredible powers to be used for Hydra's benefit in their war with S.H.I.E.L.D. 

### Quest for the Orb

 discovering the Orb]]
 
The Orb was hidden away inside Morag's deep Temple Vault where it was eventually located by Yondu Udonta's Ravagers. Before Udonta could claim it, however, Star-Lord found it and took it for himself, only to be almost immediately confronted by Korath who had been ordered to find it by Ronan the Accuser. During their ensuing confrontation, Star-Lord escaped with the Orb, despite being chased down by Korath's army of Sakaarans and becoming the target of Gamora, who had been sent by Thanos and Ronan to reclaim the Orb. The Nova Corps captured Star-Lord for his crimes and also took the Orb.
 finally opens the Orb]]
Star-Lord and Gamora made a deal, along with Rocket, Groot and Drax the Destroyer to join forces to escape the Kyln and sell the Orb to the Collector. The plan worked out and eventually, the group made it to Knowhere where they were greeted by Carina and the Collector, who told them the full story of the Infinity Stones. Just before the Collector could buy the Orb, Carina, who was tired of the torment her master put her through, touched the stone inside, causing a massive explosion that destroyed the Collector's Museum and forced them to escape.
 takes the Orb's power]]
As a result, the Orb was located by Ronan the Accuser, whose forces of Sakaarans led by Nebula managed to overpower Gamora and claim the Orb for themselves. Having learned that the Orb contained the Power Stone, however, Ronan chose not to hand it over to Thanos as he had agreed. Instead, he took its power for himself, planning to use it to destroy Xandar before attacking Thanos himself, while gaining the support of both Nebula and Korath in his plans.
 unleash the energy of the Power Stone]]
Although Ronan the Accuser attempted to destroy Xandar with the Power Stone's incredible power, he was confronted by the Guardians of the Galaxy who were supported by the Ravagers and the Nova Corps. During the Battle of Xandar, Ronan's ship the Dark Aster was destroyed and he himself was killed when Star-Lord took the Power Stone's power. Gamora sealed the Stone back into the Orb and Star-Lord handed it over to the Nova Corps to be locked away for safety. 

### Creating a Vision

 finds and takes the Scepter]]
 
Having been held by Wolfgang von Strucker, the Scepter was eventually found by the Avengers and taken into the custody of Tony Stark, who decided to use it in his experiments to bring life to Ultron, who he planned to use to bring about a peaceful world with the help of Bruce Banner. However, the Mind Stone gave Ultron too much wisdom and gave him a vicious and bloodthirsty viewpoint of humanity itself, driving him to the point that he sought to destroy it completely.
 gives birth to the Vision]]
During his war with the Avengers, Ultron stole the Scepter and used it, while combining the knowledge and resources of Helen Cho and the vibranium he had taken from Ulysses Klaue, to create a new and powerful body known as the Vision. The being was taken from him when the Avengers stole the Regeneration Cradle during the Battle of Seoul, leading to Stark, Banner, and Thor granting the being life with the Mind Stone embedded in its skull.
 destroying the army of Ultron Sentries]]
The Vision viewed Ultron as a danger to Earth and decided to join the Avengers in fighting him. During the Battle of Sokovia, the Vision used the power of the Mind Stone against the overwhelming army of Ultron Sentries and combined its power with Iron Man and Thor's power to overpower and defeat Ultron, who could not match Vision's power. With the war won, Vision decided to join the Avengers and use his remarkable power to aid in the protection of Earth. 

### Thor's Vision

 is given a vision of the Infinity Stones]]
 
Thor went to the Water of Sight to see again the disturbing vision that Wanda Maximoff had caused him to have during the Battle at the Salvage Yard. Garnering better details, Thor saw the Scepter relieved of its stone, the Aether, the Orb, and the Tesseract all lined up into a row. Thor then went to Avengers Tower and helped to bring Vision to life because he possessed the Mind Stone; Thor understood its relationship to the other Stones and how Vision could help in the final defeat of Ultron. Later, Thor related his knowledge that four of the Infinity Stones had been located. 

### A Mystery

 expresses his fears to Wanda Maximoff]]
 
As they were talking at the Avengers Compound, Vision explained to Wanda Maximoff that although he knew where the Mind Stone had come from, he did not know its true nature. He said to her that the more he understood it, the less it controlled him and someday he may control it. Later, during the Rescue of Wanda Maximoff, Maximoff used her powers to control the Mind Stone and push Vision many meters beneath the facility.
 accidentally shoots War Machine]]
The next day, at the end of the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport, War Machine asked Vision to disable Falcon's wings with the Stone. However, the beam Vision fired accidentally hit War Machine's Arc Reactor, causing him to crash onto the ground. At the hospital where James Rhodes was treated, Tony Stark approached Vision and asked him how it had happened. Vision answered that he had been distracted, which he did not know was possible. 

### Summoning of Dormammu

 uses the Eye of Agamotto]]
 
Having been stored within Kamar-Taj for safeguarding, the Eye of Agamotto was eventually discovered by Doctor Strange during his studies. Taking the Eye, Strange experimented with its power by creating a time loop in which he regrew an apple several times until he was discovered by Wong, who warned him to stop due to the risks of using such a powerful item. Strange kept the Eye with him during his battles against Kaecilius and the Zealots, not yet using its power.
 uses the Eye of Agamotto to defeat Dormammu]]
When Strange and Karl Mordo traveled to Hong Kong to confront Kaecilius, they discovered that the Sanctum located there had already been destroyed and that Kaecilius and his Zealots were successful in their plan to bring Dormammu and the Dark Dimension to Earth. Strange then used the Eye's power to rebuild the Sanctum by reversing time. However, Kaecilius stopped him, almost allowing Dormammu to come to Earth, so Strange went into the Dark Dimension and used the Eye to trap Dormammu in a time loop.
 returns the Eye of Agamotto]]
Each time Doctor Strange was killed by Dormammu, time reversed until just before their confrontation, where Strange kept Dormammu prisoner, albeit at the cost of his suffering. Strange told Dormammu to end his assault and take his zealots with him in exchange for Strange breaking the loop. With the war over, Strange left the Eye in Kamar-Taj with Wong having confidence Strange could wield the Eye without abusing its power once he has mastered its powers. Until then, he cannot wear it in public. Strange would soon bear the title of Master of the Mystic Arts and did eventually earn the right to wear the Eye, as was seen during his meeting with Thor. 

### Ragnarök

 decides to steal the Tesseract]]
 
When Hela was in Odin's Vault, she passed by the Tesseract and noted that it "[wasn't] bad," making it the only relic she was actually even remotely impressed by. Later, as Loki was about to summon up Surtur to cause Ragnarök, he passed by the Tesseract as well and took it so he could warp himself to the Statesman ship with Thor and the rest of the Asgardians before Asgard was obliterated. 

### Infinity War

 brandishes the Power Stone]]
 
The Mad Titan, Thanos, brandished a gauntlet created to harness the power of the Infinity Stones, having decided to personally hunt for the Stones after having lost many of his resources in his failed alliances. Along with his children, the Black Order, he traveled to Xandar, decimating the Nova Corps and Empire to acquire the Power Stone while also massacring half of Xandar's population as part of his goal to wipe out half of the universe.
 acquires the Space Stone]]
A week later, he attacked the Asgardian ship, the Statesman, killing half the population aboard (which was already dwindling in numbers due to Hela) and beating both Thor and Hulk almost to death. To stop the assault, Loki gave him the Tesseract, which Thanos shattered to reveal the Space Stone inside. Thanos then used the Space Stone to stop an attempted assassination from Loki, whom he killed and left aboard the exploding Statesman to continue his mission.
 using the Reality Stone]]
Upon arriving at Knowhere, Thanos confronted the Collector for the Reality Stone and was able to get it from him. Thanos used the Reality Stone to deceive the Guardians of the Galaxy and trick and capture his daughter, Gamora. Upon seeing her sister, Nebula, being tortured by their father, Gamora revealed the hidden location of the Soul Stone.
 obtains the Soul Stone]]
Together, Thanos and Gamora traveled to Vormir and confronted Red Skull who had been teleported to the planet over 70 years ago after his brief contact with the Tesseract. Red Skull revealed the Soul Stone could only appear after one sacrificed the thing they loved most, claiming it was a trading of souls. A heartbroken Thanos tearfully threw his daughter over the cliff and she fell to her death. After a blinding light, Thanos awoke with the stone in his hand, which he added to the gauntlet.
 protects the Time Stone]]
Meanwhile, Doctor Strange had continued to defend the Time Stone in the Eye of Agamotto and placed a spell on the necklace to protect it. After a conflict with Cull Obsidian and Ebony Maw, Doctor Strange was captured and taken aboard their ship where he was tortured by Maw until he was rescued by Iron Man and Spider-Man. The trio then traveled to Thanos' homeworld, Titan, and met with the Guardians of the Galaxy.
 handing over the Time Stone]]
After a lengthy battle with Thanos, in which the power of the Infinity Stones proved crucial for Thanos' victory, the group was defeated and Strange was forced to relinquish the Time Stone to Thanos in order to save Iron Man's life. Thanos then used the gauntlet to teleport to Wakanda where, after he was severely injured by Corvus Glaive and Proxima Midnight, Vision and the Mind Stone were located.
 rips the Mind Stone out of Vision]]
At the Battle of Wakanda, Thanos used the Infinity Stones' powers to effortlessly overpower every single hero that opposed him. Wanda Maximoff was forced to destroy the Mind Stone and Vision as she held back Thanos. After briefly attempting to comfort Scarlet Witch for her grief, Thanos used the Time Stone to restore Vision by reversing the explosion.
 finally collects all of the Infinity Stones]]
After ripping the Stone from his head, Vision died once again and Thanos finally completed the Infinity Gauntlet. Thor, with his new weapon Stormbreaker, attacked Thanos with one powerful hurl of the enormous battle axe, inflicting a near-fatal injury on the Titan. Not to be deterred, however, Thanos mocked Thor before completing his goal and snapping his fingers. Immediately after, Thanos used the damaged gauntlet to simultaneously heal himself from the battle wound and teleport to safety, having succeeded in his mission.
 successfully executes the Snap]]
A few moments later, half the population of the universe began to disintegrate. Bucky Barnes, T'Challa, Groot, Wanda Maximoff, Sam Wilson, Mantis, Drax, Peter Quill, Stephen Strange, Peter Parker, Shuri, Maria Hill, Nick Fury, Sif, Betty Ross, Erik Selvig, Jane Foster, Hank Pym, Janet van Dyne, Hope van Dyne, Laura Barton, Cooper Barton, Lila Barton, Nathaniel Barton, Monica Rambeau, and Yelena Belova were among the victims. Thanos reappeared on a quiet forested planet. His arm was still scarred from the snap, but all of his other wounds had fully healed and he satisfactorily gazed at the sunrise with a smile on his face. 

### Destruction

 
Three weeks later, Thanos used the power of the Stones to destroy them, reducing them down to atoms. 

### Part of History

By 2023, the Infinity Stones had become public knowledge. Many people who had no prior knowledge of the Stones, such as Jimmy Woo and Darcy Lewis, knew about them. Additionally, Kamala Khan, who also had no prior knowledge of the Stones, learned about them through Scott Lang's podcast interviews. 

By 2024, the Infinity Stones had become part of Midtown School of Science and Technology's history classes. Additionally, hand-drawn posters of the Stones were hung up within the school. 

By 2025, the book I Was There..., which was written by a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, was released and it included a first-hand account of Tony Stark's usage of the Infinity Stones during the Battle of Earth. ‘Ms. Marvel’: Every Single Hidden Reference at AvengerCon 

### Alternate Universe Versions

#### Collected by the Avengers

=

#### Time Heist
=
 locate the Infinity Stones]]
 
In 2023, the Avengers initiated their Time Heist, in which they would time travel through the Multiverse in order to acquire Infinity Stones from alternate pasts. The team conveneed at the facility and brainstormed the locations of the Infinity Stones in the past in order to use them to bring everyone back. Rocket shared that Peter Quill had found the Power Stone on Morag. Nebula provided that Thanos had gone to Vormir with Gamora to acquire the Soul Stone. Thor shared his story when he encountered the Reality Stone. While talking about where Doctor Strange lived, Black Widow realized that the Time, Mind and Space Stones were all in New York at a very specific point. The Avengers suited up and began their mission in three teams.
 escapes with the Tesseract]]
Captain America, Iron Man, Ant-Man, and Hulk appeared at the Battle of New York and split up. Iron Man, Captain America and Ant-Man grabbed the Scepter, holding the Mind Stone. But ultimately lost the Space Stone as Loki grabbed the Tesseract and teleported away.
 and Bruce Banner discuss the Infinity Stones]]
Hulk approached the Ancient One, who explained he was five years too early to consult with Stephen Strange. The two had a lengthy discussion where the Ancient One said taking an Infinity Stone from the past would doom that branched reality. Swearing to return the stone to the moment they took it from, Hulk explained that Strange had handed over the Time Stone to Thanos, much to the Ancient One's astonishment. Carefully removing the Time Stone from the Eye of Agamotto, she stated he must have had his reason in doing so.
 extracts the Reality Stone]]
Appearing on Asgard in the year 2013, Rocket and Thor made their way to Jane Foster, who was infected with the Aether. Thor found it too difficult to continue forward and ran away. Rocket acquired the Reality Stone, while Thor had an emotional talk with his mother, Frigga, who realized that he was from the future. The two had an emotional goodbye before Thor called Mjølnir to himself and traveled back to the present.
 manages to steal the Power Stone]]
Traveling to Morag in the year 2014, Nebula and War Machine, waited for Peter Quill to arrive, while Hawkeye and Black Widow flew to Vormir. After knocking Quill out, Nebula retrieved the Orb and handed it to Rhodey who traveled back to 2023. Nebula, however, unwillingly began interfacing with her 2014 self. Thanos became aware of their plan and captured the original timeline version of Nebula and had the two trade places.
 receives the Soul Stone]]
Arriving on Vormir, Red Skull appeared to Hawkeye and Black Widow, saying that only one of them could leave with the stone, while the other one had to sacrifice themselves for it. After engaging in a brief combat, due to their disagreement over who should be the sacrifice, Hawkeye jumped off the cliff but was tackled by Black Widow. The two clung to the cliff before a Black Widow released herself from Hawkeye's grip, falling to her death. With the sacrifice fulfilled, Hawkeye awoke with the Soul Stone in his hand.
 steals the Tesseract from 1970]]
Tracking the Tesseract to April 7, 1970, Iron Man and Captain America traveled to Camp Lehigh and acquired the Space Stone and more Pym Particles. Iron Man had a lengthy conversation with his father, and finally received a proper goodbye, even though Howard was unaware of who he was. The two traveled back to 2023 and rejoined the other Avengers. Hawkeye revealed that Black Widow had sacrificed herself for the Soul Stone, and the Avengers mourned her, then got to work creating the Nano Gauntlet. 

=

#### Blip
=
 is created]]
 
Upon creating the Nano Gauntlet, Rocket, Iron Man and Hulk inserted the six Infinity Stones into the weapon. A small debate broke out on who should wield the gauntlet. Meanwhile, an alternate Nebula, who had infiltrated the Avengers, created a time gateway to an alternate 2014 and the Sanctuary II emerged in 2023 and destroyed the Quantum Tunnel.
 wielding the Nano Gauntlet]]
Eventually, Hulk put on the gauntlet, which caused him incredible pain. Slowly raising his arm, Hulk snapped his fingers and resurrected all living creatures whom Thanos had turned to dust five years ago. Immediately, birds flew onto trees outside the Avengers Compound pleasing Ant-Man, and Hawkeye received a phone call from his now resurrected wife. Before the Avengers could celebrate, the Sanctuary II rained down missiles on the Avengers Compound. 

=

#### Battle of Earth
=
 protecting the Infinity Stones]]
 
Separated by the attack, Hawkeye found himself in the access tunnels, along with the Nano Gauntlet. After discovering a horde of Outriders, Hawkeye protected the Gauntlet as he ran from the aliens. Once he was safe from them, an alternate Nebula tricked Hawkeye to give her the Gauntlet. However, after she was killed by the original Nebula, Hawkeye picked up the Gauntlet and continued to protect the Infinity Stones.
 tries to return the Infinity Stones]]
When Hawkeye joined the battle outside, Captain America told him to get the Infinity Stones as far away from an alternate Thanos as possible, but Hulk told them that they needed to return the stones to their time. Passing the gauntlet from Black Panther to Spider-Man, Ant-Man and the Wasp went to Luis' Van which had a Quantum Tunnel that could return the Infinity Stones to their correct times. Captain Marvel took the gauntlet from Spider-Man and made her way toward the tunnel. Thanos, however, threw his sword at the tunnel, destroying it.
 wields the Infinity Stones]]
Captain Marvel, Thor, Captain America, and Iron Man tried to prevent Thanos from grabbing the gauntlet but failed. Captain Marvel was unfazed by Thanos' attacks and stopped him from snapping his fingers again. Removing the Power Stone, Thanos blasted Captain Marvel away and once again prepared to decimate the universe only to once again be stopped, this time by Iron Man. Thanos threw Iron Man aside and snapped his fingers, stating that he was inevitable. When nothing happened, however, Thanos looked to Iron Man who had created his own gauntlet with nanotech and brandished the stones himself. Stark then snapped his fingers, resulting in Thanos and his entire army disintegrating.
 
Following Iron Man's funeral, Captain America, with Hulk's help, went back in time and returned the stones to their respective timelines. 

#### Time Variance Authority

 ]]
 
When Loki from an alternate 2012 was taken into custody by the Time Variance Authority and escaped their confinement, he forced a TVA clerk named Casey to return the Tesseract to him. However, when he was given the Tesseract, Loki saw that it was in a drawer that contained several other Infinity Stones from various alternate timelines. Casey then told Loki that some employees used Infinity Stones as paperweights since they were powerless inside the Time Variance Authority Office. Hunter B-15 and Mobius M. Mobius came through an elevator with B-15 trying to hit Loki with her baton, but missed and accidentally hit the cart, pruning it along with all its contents including the stones to the Void due to Loki using the Time Twister to escape the room. 

#### Strange Supreme

In an alternate universe, after Strange Supreme resurrected his late girlfriend Christine Palmer, his universe began to collapse. He then saw Watcher, whom he had sensed earlier, and he begged the Watcher to help him. The Watcher refused, telling Strange that he could not interfere. The universe eventually collapsed, destroying most life in it, except for Strange, as well as most of the Infinity Stones, except for the Time Stone. 

#### Zombie Apocalypse

 Thanos with the Infinity Stones]]
In an alternate 2018, five of the Infinity Stones had been acquired by Thanos on his quest to acquire all six Stones. After Thanos travelled to Earth to acquire the Mind Stone, he became infected with a quantum virus and turned into a zombie. Despite this, he was able to retain the Stones that he had acquired. 

During the battle that followed, Thanos' infected mind had trouble wielding the power of the Stones at first, but he quickly adapted, killing Rocket and Groot and severely injuring Thor. Black Panther briefly wielded the Mind Stone against Thanos, but Thanos was able to get his hands on that as well. To stop Thanos, Black Panther sacrificed himself to push Thanos into Wakanda's vibranium reactor core, killing them both. 

However, the Infinity Stones were shattered in the process, releasing a hurricane of Infinity Energy that nearly killed Peter Parker and Scott Lang before they were saved by the Masters of the Mystic Arts. The Infinity Energy continued its destructive spread across the planet before finally being contained by Infinity Hulk in Paris. 

#### Used by Ultron

 's possession]]
 
In an alternate universe, Thanos had acquired five Infinity Stones and teleported to Earth in order to acquire the sixth. However, he was met by Ultron who was fascinated by the Stones and killed Thanos in order to claim them. Ultron then used the Mind Stone in his forehead to destroy part of the Infinity Gauntlet in order to remove the five Stones that Thanos had acquired from the Gauntlet and absorbed the Stones into his armor. After being in possession of all six, Ultron recognized the existence of other planets in the universe. He used the Reality Stone to reanimate his army and led them into space. There, Ultron used the combined power of all six Stones to destroy Asgard, Sovereign, Sakaar, Ego, and Xandar as well as the rest of the planets in the universe. After the universe was silent, Ultron became aware of Watcher's presence inside the Observational Plane, as well as the existence of the Multiverse which caused Ultron to hunt down the Watcher. Ultron used the Stones' power to break into the Plane and attacked the Watcher by blasting him with the Power Stone. However, the Watcher was able to fight back against Ultron and they battled throughout multiple universes. After the Watcher surrendered and fled, Ultron returned to the Nexus and with the Stones' power, vowed to destroy the Multiverse. 
 learn about the Infinity Stones]]
After locating the Guardians of the Multiverse, Ultron arrived at their location in an uninhabited universe and prepared to kill them using the Stones. He used the Stones' power to cause the ground they were standing on to fall hoping that they would be crushed. During the brief scuffle, Star-Lord managed to grab the Soul Stone off of Ultron's armor. When Ultron was confronted by a zombified Wanda Maximoff, he used the Stones' power to obliterate the universe that they were in. T'Challa proceeded to transport the Soul Stone to Ultron's home universe.
 's possession]]
However, when they arrived, Natasha Romanoff found them and snatched the Stone from T'Challa. Ultron arrived and tried to get the Stone back, but the Guardians fought him to keep him away from it. Eventually, Gamora grabbed the Stone, but Ultron used the Time Stone to freeze time to grab the Stone. Strange Supreme used his Time Stone to reverse Ultron's actions and Gamora managed to place the Infinity Crusher on him with the intention of destroying the Stones. However, the Crusher didn't work as the Stones were from Ultron's universe and the Crusher only worked on the Stones from Gamora's universe. After Romanoff shot Arnim Zola's analog consciousness into Ultron via an arrow, Ultron was killed. Erik Killmonger seized the opportunity and stole the Stones in order to kill the Guardians, but he was stopped by Zola, leading to a tug-of-war between the two for sole possession of the Stones. Strange then realized that their mission was to separate the Stones from Ultron's body and trapped Zola, Killmonger, and the separated Stones in a pocket dimension with The Watcher's help. 

After being freed during the Battle at the Sanctum Infinitum, Killmonger gained control of the Infinity Stones and used them to kill Thanos. However, he was quickly separated from them by Kahhori. 

#### Destroyed by Gamora

In an alternate universe, after killing Thanos with the help of Tony Stark, Gamora destroyed the Infinity Stones using a device called the Infinity Crusher. She and Stark then had Eitri melt down Thanos' Infinity Gauntlet. 

#### Infinity War

 ' Infinity Gauntlet after his defeat and death]]
In an alternate 2018, four of the Infinity Stones had been acquired by Thanos on his quest to acquire all six Stones. When Thanos travelled to Titan, he was promptly confronted by the Illuminati. They killed him and left the Stones in the Infinity Gauntlet on his corpse. 

#### Empowering the Forbidden Lake

 ]]
 
In an alternate universe, Surter invaded Asgard, trigging Ragnarök. Odin attempted to stop him using the Tesseract, but Surtur succeding in destroying Asgard. The Tesseract survived Asgard's destruction and crash landed on Earth in the territory of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy. The Tesseract broke upon impact and its energy was released into the Forbidden Lake. The lake was soon discovered by nearby tribes, but when anyone tried to swim in the lake they disappeared, causing conflict to break out. The conflict left the lake's reputation permanently stained, with no one being allowed to swim in its waters.

When Kahhori's village was attacked by the Conquistadores, she came across the Forbidden Lake. She fell into the lake and was transported to the Sky World. Kahhori spent time in the Sky World and learned to gain control over her newfound abilities before she decided to return to her village to stop the Conquistadores. She managed to convince the Sky World inhabitants to come with her and they helped her save her people from the Spanish Empire. 

#### 1602 Anomaly

 
To be added 

#### Used by Captain Carter

 
To be added 

#### Reflective Infinity Ultron Universe

 
In an alternate universe, Ultron gained all of the Infinity Stones and used them to destroy his entire universe. However, having never become aware of the Watcher's presence, Ultron simply remained in his destroyed universe. 

## Stones

### Space Stone

 
*Stone Color: Blue 
*Original Containment Unit: Tesseract Kevin Feige Lays Down Details on Marvel's Cinematic Infinity Gems 
*Previous Owners:
**Cosmic Entities
**Odin † (until 965) 
**Church Keeper † (until 1942) 
**Hydra (1942-1945) 
**Howard Stark † (1945-1949) 
**Avengers (1970; 2023) 
**Mar-Vell † (until 1989) 
**Goose (1995) 
**S.H.I.E.L.D. (1995-2012) 
**Heimdall † (2012-2017) 
**Hela † (2017) 
**Loki † (2012; 2017–2018) 
**Thanos † (2018) 
**Loki (2012) 
**Casey (destroyed by Hunter B-15) 
*Last Location: Inside the Infinity Gauntlet (2018, destroyed) , Inside the Tesseract (2012, alternate timeline) 
*Description: The Tesseract is named for its cube-like appearance and is capable of controlling space itself, providing the user instant access to any location throughout the universe if used correctly. The unique element that composes the Tesseract has also been used to create advanced weaponry by races like the Humans. This stone played an important role in humanity's development during the dawn of the superhero age, attracting the attention of forces such as Red Skull and Thanos, both of whom sought to use the Tesseract's power for their own sinister intents. It is later revealed that the cube is a containment unit built around the actual Infinity Stone so that it could be somewhat safely handled and controlled. Despite such protection, touching the Tesseract barehanded can still have dire consequences as seen with Red Skull. However, it was later hinted that the Space Stone punished Red Skull for abusing its power for his own gain, suggesting at least some of the Infinity Stones can be touched directly by ordinary beings if they are deemed worthy. In Thor's vision, the Tesseract is shattered to unveil the blue Space Stone contained inside it. Thanos later acquired the Tesseract from Loki, who had saved it from Asgard's destruction. With only his bare hand, Thanos crushed the Tesseract and extracted the Space Stone within before he inserted it into the Infinity Gauntlet. In an alternate timeline, during the Time Heist on 2012, Loki picked up the Tesseract and used it to escape from S.H.I.E.L.D. and the Avengers.

### Mind Stone

 
*Stone Color: Yellow (Blue within Scepter) 
*Original Containment Unit: Scepter 
*Previous Owners:
**Cosmic Entities
**Thanos (until 2012) 
**Loki † (2012) 
**S.H.I.E.L.D. (2012-2014) 
***Avengers (2012; 2023) 
**Hydra (2014-2015) 
**Avengers (2015) 
**Ultron † (2015) 
**Vision † (2015-2018) 
**Thanos † (2018) 
*Last Location: Inside the Infinity Gauntlet (2018, destroyed) 
*Description: The Scepter was a weapon that utilized the yellow Mind Stone housed inside a blue computer module, which also masked the stone's presence. Stark originally saw the Stone as a power source, whereas once J.A.R.V.I.S. had the opportunity to study the stone he stated it was more akin to a very powerful computer. The stone within had already been in the possession of Thanos when he gave it to Loki to aid him in his invasion of Earth. It grants to the user powerful mental abilities, like the power to subjugate the minds of others, bending them to the will of the user, as well as project the user's consciousness to a higher plane of existence. The stone was also said to greatly increase the intelligence of those capable of wielding it, as shown in the cases of Loki and Wolfgang von Strucker. When Loki failed in his campaign, the Scepter fell into the possession of S.H.I.E.L.D., eventually being passed on to Hydra via sleeper agents. The Scepter was then used in various Hydra experiments, notably inducing superhuman powers in young Sokovian twins Wanda and Pietro Maximoff, and other capabilities such as mind control, astral and energy projection were unearthed as well as telepathic and telekinetic powers. The protective casing of the Scepter's gem was eventually broken by Ultron and the contained stone was used to bring life to Vision. Thor later entrusted the stone to Vision, stating that Vision was worthy and that safety was hard to come by nowadays. Despite being a part of him, the stone's origin was a mystery for Vision and he wished to understand it so he could control it. The Mind Stone was the last stone Thanos would acquire, which he forcibly removed from Vision, killing him.

### Reality Stone

 
*Stone Color: Red 
*Original Containment Unit: Chamber 
*Previous Owners:
**Cosmic Entities
**Malekith † (until 2988 BC) 
**Bor † (2988 BC) 
**Jane Foster (2013) 
***Avengers (2013; 2023) 
**Malekith † (2013) 
**Asgardians (2013) 
**Taneleer Tivan (2013-2018) 
**Thanos † (2018) 
*Last Location: Inside the Infinity Gauntlet (2018, destroyed) 
*Description: The Aether appears as a dark, red, viscous liquid. It acts as a symbiotic force, capable of being absorbed into the body of a living host, giving the user the ability to warp reality at will, granting that person immense strength, durability, powers, and subjective influence over the universe. Malekith planned to use the Aether's reality-bending abilities to cover all Nine Realms in darkness; however, he was stopped by the combined efforts of Thor and Jane Foster. Only two people, Jane Foster and Malekith, are known to have been hosts for the Aether, but circumstances prevented the full extent of the Aether's potential from being explored. It is later shown that the Aether is actually an Infinity Stone contained in a liquid form, and in Thor's vision, this liquid solidifies into the red Reality Stone. The Aether is given to The Collector by Thor's companions, Sif and Volstagg and later seized by Thanos, who solidified it into the Reality Stone and inserted it into his Infinity Gauntlet.

### Power Stone

 
*Stone Color: Purple 
*Original Containment Unit: Orb 
*Previous Owners:
**Cosmic Entities
**Eson the Searcher
**Power Stone Group
**Avengers (2014; 2023) 
**Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) 
**Ronan the Accuser † (2014) 
**Nova Corps † (2014-2018) 
**Thanos † (2018) 
*Last Location: Inside the Infinity Gauntlet (2018, destroyed) 
*Description: The Power Stone is an incredible power source, it increases the user's physical abilities and allows it to manipulate energy, which, when used at full potential, has enough power to obliterate an entire planet when unleashed. This stone was sought by Thanos, who tasked Ronan the Accuser to acquire it from the dead planet of Morag, in exchange for destroying Xandar. However, Star-Lord acquired the stone first and was prepared to sell it to Taneleer Tivan ("The Collector") with Gamora until its destructive power was unleashed at Knowhere. Soon after, Ronan obtained it and harnessed its energy with the intent of destroying all life on Xandar and killing Thanos. Star-Lord and the Guardians of the Galaxy were able to take the stone from Ronan and collectively harness its power to destroy him. They then gave the stone to Nova Prime Irani Rael for safekeeping on Xandar. However, Thanos would wipe out the Nova Corps in a successful attempt to acquire the Power Stone and he then inserts it into his Infinity Gauntlet.

### Time Stone

 
*Stone Color: Green 
*Original Containment Unit: Eye of Agamotto 
*Previous Owners:
**Cosmic Entities
**Agamotto
**Cagliostro
**Ancient One † (until 2017) 
***Avengers (2012; 2023) 
**Doctor Strange (2017-2018) 
**Thanos † (2018) 
*Last Location: Inside the Infinity Gauntlet (2018, destroyed) 
*Description: The Eye of Agamotto is an ancient artifact, a pendant created by Agamotto, the first Sorcerer Supreme, presumably to contain and harness the power of the green Time Stone contained inside. After being stored for an unknown amount of time on a pedestal in Kamar-Taj, it was recently wielded by Doctor Stephen Strange, first to aid him in his learning of sorcery, then in his final fight against Kaecilius and Dormammu. When wielded by someone having the necessary knowledge and skills, it appeared to be able to control the flow of time, be it on a small or massive scale, notably to turn back something to a previous state, to accelerate its time in order to apply changes that have not happened yet, or to lock it in a time loop, resetting its state until the wielder stops its effect. It appeared skilled sorcerers, or perhaps users of powers from the Dark Dimension could to an extent subtract themselves to the effects of the stone, stopping the time-reversal affecting oneself or detecting one was stuck in a time loop. It was noted by Wong and Karl Mordo that the use of the Eye was contrary to the natural order of things and extremely dangerous. With Wong's approval, it was placed back on its pedestal by Strange until he learned how to properly harness its powers. Strange wore it once again a little while later while meeting with Thor and Loki. Strange was forced to later surrender the Stone to Thanos in order to save Tony Stark's life.

### Soul Stone

 
*Stone Color: Orange 
*Previous Owners:
**Cosmic Entities
**Red Skull (1945-2018) 
***Avengers (2014; 2023) 
**Thanos † (2018) 
*Last Location: Inside the Infinity Gauntlet (2018, destroyed) 
*Description: According to Wong's ancient texts, the Soul Stone could prove to be the greatest threat out of all the Infinity Stones. Gamora knew of the location of the Soul Stone from a map she found to its whereabouts (which she burnt) but kept this a secret from Thanos. Once captured and interrogated by her father, whom tortured Gamora's sister Nebula, he took her to its holding place on Vormir, where Red Skull, the Soul Stone's guardian, told them that it could only be accessed after a personal cost was paid - namely, the sacrifice of a loved one, to ensure that the owner understood its power. Thanos then tearfully sacrificed his daughter and later woke up with the Soul Stone in his hand, adding it to the Infinity Gauntlet shortly thereafter before heading off to retrieve the Time and Mind Stones.

## Capabilities

 , Power Stone, Reality Stone, and Space Stone]]
 
As the Infinity Stones are the representation of all the necessary aspects of existence, they have absolute control over the fabric of reality they represent and from it, they derive extremely powerful capabilities to be wielded and are the most powerful artifacts in the known universe. Their power keeps the stability of the universe, meaning if they were removed from their reality, said reality would suffer catastrophic consequences in time. Thor describes the Infinity Stones as the greatest power in the universe, and "unparalleled" in their destructive capabilities. The power of the Time Stone was able to render even an phenomenally powerful cosmic being of Dormammu's caliber powerless to do anything to break it. The Reality Stone's power can affect the whole universe, with Malekith intending to use its capabilities to cover the whole universe in darkness. The Space Stone was thought to be capable of channeling energy sufficient to destroy a planet with the Power Stone being able to destroy worlds and dimensions simply via its energy making contact with their surface. Even Asgard deems it unwise to house two stones in one place, despite the fact that their vault is extremely well guarded.

Augmented by the Power Stone, the Dark Aster was able to easily breach the considerable defenses that surrounded Xandar with Irani Rael declaring a state of emergency once she learned that Ronan wielded it. One of the greatest feats of power ever to be seen from the use of the Infinity Stones was their power to turn living beings into dust. Such power alone was the true motivation for Thanos to seek out the Infinity Stones in the first place. When all six Stones are brought together and properly channeled, they make their wielder virtually omnipotent, being able to affect the universe in almost any way they choose, which Thanos demonstrated when he killed half of all life in the universe via a simple finger snap. Likewise, the Infinity Stones were the only way to resurrect all those who were decimated by Thanos. The combined power of all the Infinity Stones could not resurrect Natasha Romanoff, however, who had sacrificed herself so that the Avengers could have the Soul Stone. In addition, the combined power of all the Infinity Stones could even destroy the Universe and recreate it to the wielder's image. With the power of all six Infinity Stones, an alternate Ultron became an extraordinarily powerful cosmic being and was capable of effortlessly decimating universes. He surpassed even the might of Watcher.

The Soul Stone was located in Vormir and had held a special place within the ranks of the Infinity Stones. According to Wong's ancient texts, the Soul Stone could be the most dangerous Infinity Stone. In order to wield the Soul Stone, the Soul Stone demanded that those who seek to wield it must first sacrifice someone they loved, so as to ensure that whoever seeks the Soul Stone does indeed understand its power. The Soul Stone can manipulate the spiritual essence of living or deceased beings, making it one of the most dangerous Infinity Stones. The Soul Stone even has a pocket dimension within it called Soulworld. Soulworld consists entirely of shallow water underneath a dim orange sky, where the souls of the dead can be communicated with.

However, due to their sheer power, only a single being of exceptional power, or collections of lesser beings who are unified and focused in their intent, is able to wield the stones. As a result, the Stones were often placed in mediums that would allow for a limited, but more stable, access to their power such as the Eye of Agamotto or the Scepter. However, the Soul Stone can be held by normal humans without any additional protection, as Hawkeye held the newly-acquired Stone with only a glove as protection. Metals appear to serve as useful inhibitors for the Stones. Ultron, then formed out of a titanium alloy, was able to hold the Mind Stone in his bare hands and Gamora was instantly able to contain the Power Stone, which had been radiating massively destructive energies, with a simple, mass-produced, metallic container. The power of all six Stones can be harnessed collectively, but prior to Thanos completing the Infinity Gauntlet, this had never been accomplished, all who attempted being overwhelmed by the powers of the individual Stones. However, even the Gauntlet itself was left heavily burnt from channeling and focusing the power of all six Stones, being seemingly rendered useless after it had done this a second time. Ultron created the Infinity Armor to house and wield the power of the Infinity Stones without risk of harm, as Killmonger and later Captain Carter wore the armor and used the power of the Stones without any harm to themselves.

The Stones, due to their immense power, are nigh-indestructible with King Bor viewing even the full might of Asgard as insufficient to destroy the Aether with the same stone later being unharmed by Thor unleashing his lightning on it. The only known way to destroy an Infinity Stone is via something that possesses the same unique energy signature as the Stones themselves. In the Infinity War, Vision correctly theorized and that if Wanda Maximoff were to focus all of her energy back into the Mind Stone, the stone's molecular integrity would fail and it would be destroyed. Though she was able to do so, it still took considerable time and effort. The Stone's destruction unleashed all the energies contained within, though the resulting wave was harmless. Her powers likewise allowed her to communicate with, and to a limited extent, control the Stone, having it increase Vision's density against his will. Three weeks after the Snap, Thanos used the Infinity Stones to reduce them to atoms, although they retain their presence in the universe. In addition, Killmonger was able to use the Stones in the Infinity Armor to disintegrate Thanos from an alternate universe, who was equipped with a complete Infinity Gauntlet, also disintegrating the Stones he had in the process. The only known way to recreate a destroyed Infinity Stone is to use the Time Stone to rewind time to before its destruction. Wanda Maximoff was also able to recreate the Mind Stone inside a recreated Vision's head via her Chaos magic. Following the Destruction of Asgard however, Thor believed that the fully empowered Surtur had destroyed the Tesseract, suggesting that a sufficiently powerful being could destroy a Stone. Gamora also used the Infinity Crusher to destroy the Infinity Stones from her universe, though the Crusher didn't work on Stones from alternate universes.

Using the combined power of all the Infinity Stones simultaneously through the Infinity Gauntlet puts incredibly high amounts of strain on the wearer of the Gauntlet, even risking death. Should the user survive channeling the Stones' energy, they risk burning the side of their body the Stones were on. Thanos barely survived a second snapping, which he used to destroy the stones, being left severely injured and weakened, so much so that he was unable to defend himself against the Avengers when he was ambushed. Hulk was likewise able to survive a snap due to the energy released by the Infinity Stones being mostly gamma radiation, but this came at the cost of his right arm being severely injured. Hulk theorized that not even Thor, an exceptionally powerful Asgardian, would be able to survive a snap, though it should be noted that Thor was not in good physical condition at the time. The Infinity Armor, however, can seemingly be used by any being to channel the Stones' power without any risk of harm to the wearer.

The energy derived from the Stones has shown the ability to grant superhuman powers. When exposed to the Space Stone derived energies of the Light-Speed Engine, Carol Danvers was gifted with powers based on those of the Space Stone, particularly her enhanced speed and energy channeling. Kahhori likewise was exposed to the power of the Space Stone, which granted her abilities such as energy projection and portal creation. Likewise, the energy of the Mind Stone allowed Wanda Maximoff to develop telekinetic and telepathic abilities and also granted her brother Pietro the power of superhuman speed. These powers persisted even after the Stones had been destroyed. Similarly, Vision and Ultron's Synthezoid bodies were further augmented by the energy of the Mind Stone, granting them abilities such as intangibility, flight, and the power to generate an energy beam from the Stone, which was strong enough to bisect Thanos. When Vision was rebuilt and reactivated as White Vision, he still retained these powers, despite no longer having the stone embedded in his forehead. The Stones can also enhance already-existing powers; the Mind Stone increased Wanda's dormant magical abilities, turning her into the Scarlet Witch and granting her Chaos Magic, though these powers are more similar to the Reality Stone in both appearance and function.

Despite their immense power, Infinity Stones, like all magical objects, are rendered powerless and practically useless when they are in the Time Variance Authority Office.

Each universes' Infinity Stones are unique. The Infinity Crusher from Gamora's universe was designed to destroy her universes' stones and was unable to destroy the Stones from an alternate universe.

## Alternate Versions

*See Mind Stone
*See Power Stone
*See Reality Stone
*See Soul Stone
*See Space Stone
*See Time Stone

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for the Infinity Stones
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* 
** (alternate universe) 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (drawing) 
* 
** 
* 
** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** 
** 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashback) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* 
** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
** (mentioned; alternate universe) 
** 
** 
** (flashback) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (indirectly mentioned; alternate universe) 
** (mentioned; flashbacks; alternate universe) 
** 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** (indirectly mentioned; alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; alternate universe) 
** (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (vision) 
* 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
*** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (mentioned; flashbacks; alternate universe) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** (alternate universe) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (flashback) 
* 
* (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** (footage) 
** 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* 
* (art; alternate universe) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (alternate universe) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (alternate universe) 
* 
** (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* 
** (flashbacks; alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
*** (flashbacks; alternate universe) 
** (flashbacks; alternate universe) 
** (flashbacks; alternate universe) 
** 
** 
** 
** 
** (alternate universe) 
* (flashbacks; alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
** (mentioned; alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (footage) 
* 
** (footage) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (files) 
* (poster) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (replicas) 
* (props) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (alternate universe) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (footage) 
* (prop) 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, the stones were originally referred to as Soul Gems before Thanos decided Infinity Gems was a more appropriate name. The six gems consist of Mind, Soul, Power, Space, Time, and Reality. They were shattered to stop an Incursion and returned after the Marvel Universe was restored at the end of 2015's Secret Wars; upon their return, they were renamed to Infinity Stones and recolored to match their Marvel Cinematic Universe counterparts.
**As of 2015's Secret Wars, there is now a newly created seventh gem: the Death Gem, able to instantly kill anything. It is yellow like the Reality Gem (comic version) but it was created to be a decoy for it, and it was used on Thanos by its creator, Anwen Bakian.
**In another universe called the Ultraverse in the comics, there is a seventh gem in the mainstream comics called the Ego Gem, which is gold in color, and when combined with the other Stones, it would summon the Nemesis, a cosmic being that harnesses the power of all six Infinity Gems.
*In The Avengers, in a file that Nick Fury hands to Steve Rogers, the stones were referred to as Infinity Gems. However, since the release of Thor: The Dark World, the stones have been referred to as Infinity Stones.
**Despite this, Steve Rogers refers to the stones as gems in Avengers: Age of Ultron.
*Ultron's use of the Mind Stone is a substitute for the encephalitic-ray he uses to brainwash or mind-read his victims in the comics.
*Vision's Mind Stone is the substitute for the Solar Gem he uses in the comics.
*Only extremely powerful beings with such a powerful physical constitution can barely be harmed when touching and wielding the Infinity Stones. These beings include the Celestials, Ronan the Accuser, and Thanos. All others, such as Humans, Asgardians, and Krylorians, are promptly killed by their power. It is also possible for the power of an Infinity Stone to be shared across multiple beings long enough to control and use it. However, this has only been shown with the Power Stone. This is likely derived from the Power Stone being more volatile than any of its siblings. Additionally, metallic beings such as Ultron or Vision can touch the stone, as seen when Ultron holds the Mind Stone and puts it in Vision's forehead. Wielding all six Infinity Stones is extremely difficult that it has been said that none who have attempted such have survived until Thanos via his using the Infinity Gauntlet as well as Hulk using the Nano Gauntlet.
*So far, at least one Infinity Stone appeared in every phase of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The stones were first named as such in the Phase Two film, Thor: The Dark World.
*Of the stones, the Reality Stone in the form of the Aether is the only one that is fluid and ever-changing, while four of the other stones were contained in objects, namely the Tesseract, the Orb, the Scepter, and the Eye of Agamotto.
*A deleted scene from Avengers: Age of Ultron, where Thor goes to the Water of Sight, explains how he knew that four Infinity Stones were found at that time, despite being ignorant of the events in Guardians of the Galaxy. 
*The Infinity Stones were referenced in the Sony Pictures Entertainment production .

## References

 
 

## External Links

* 
* 

ru:Камни бесконечности
es:Gemas del Infinito

Category:Infinity Stones
Category:Items
Category:Weapons
Category:Thor (film) Items
Category:Thor (film) Weapons
Category:Captain America: The First Avenger Items
Category:Captain America: The First Avenger Weapons
Category:The Avengers Items
Category:The Avengers Weapons
Category:Thor: The Dark World Items
Category:Thor: The Dark World Weapons
Category:Captain America: The Winter Soldier Items
Category:Captain America: The Winter Soldier Weapons
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy (film) Items
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy (film) Weapons
Category:Avengers: Age of Ultron Items
Category:Avengers: Age of Ultron Weapons
Category:Captain America: Civil War Items
Category:Captain America: Civil War Weapons
Category:Doctor Strange (film) Items
Category:Doctor Strange (film) Weapons
Category:Thor: Ragnarok Items
Category:Thor: Ragnarok Weapons
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Items
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Weapons
Category:Captain Marvel (film) Items
Category:Captain Marvel (film) Weapons
Category:Avengers: Endgame Items
Category:Avengers: Endgame Weapons
Category:Deadpool & Wolverine Items
Category:Deadpool & Wolverine Weapons
Category:WandaVision Items
Category:WandaVision Weapons
Category:Loki (TV series) Items
Category:Loki (TV series) Weapons
Category:What If...? Items
Category:What If...? Weapons
Category:Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man Items
Category:Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man Weapons
Category:Marvel Zombies Items
Category:Marvel Zombies Weapons
Category:Comic Items
Category:Comic Weapons
Category:Video Game Items
Category:Video Game Weapons
Category:Book Items
Category:Book Weapons
Category:Theme Park Items
Category:Theme Park Weapons
Category:Hydra Equipment
Category:Nova Corps Equipment
Category:S.H.I.E.L.D. Equipment
Category:Avengers Equipment
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Equipment
Category:Pruned