Murdock 
|alias = 
|codenames = Masked Man The Devil of Hell's Kitchen Daredevil 
|derivatives = Matty 
|nicknames = Man in the Mask The Devil Red Avocados at Law (with Foggy Nelson) The Man Without Fear 
|undercover = Mike Franklin Nelson }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = 
|gender = Male
|DOB = 1984-1985 
|snapped = No 
|title = Attorney
|IDno = 3047718481 Marvel Prop Store Auction Daredevil Lot #65 
|affiliation = (formerly) (formerly) Landman and Zack (formerly) (formerly) Defenders (formerly) (formerly) Daredevil's Army
|movie = Spider-Man: No Way Home
|tv series = The Defenders (8 episodes) She-Hulk: Attorney at Law (2 episodes) Echo (1 episode) Daredevil: Born Again (9 episodes) }}
|comic = Jessica Jones (flashbacks) 
|actor = Charlie Cox Skylar Gaertner (young) Eli D. Goss (young) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Matthew "Matt" Murdock is a lawyer and vigilante who was blinded as a young boy when radioactive substances spilled into his eyes, which resulted in his four remaining senses being heightened to superhuman levels. When mobsters killed his father, Murdock was raised at Saint Agnes Orphanage before being trained by Stick to hone his senses and become a warrior. However, Murdock's compassion led him to be rejected by Stick. As an adult, Murdock chose to study law and attended Columbia University, where he met Foggy Nelson. Upon graduation, Murdock dedicated his life to fighting injustice in New York City; by day, as a lawyer with his law firm Nelson and Murdock, and by night, as a vigilante known as the Masked Man. Murdock's actions as a crime fighter eventually put him into conflict with Wilson Fisk. Murdock used his skills to expose Fisk's criminal activities and then had him arrested, with Murdock now being known as Daredevil.

Daredevil's actions and his strict moral code soon put him into conflict with Punisher, a gun-toting vigilante who believed that criminals deserved to be murdered. While dealing with Punisher, Daredevil was also thrown into more personal turmoil by the sudden return of former lover Elektra along with Stick, who both attempted to recruit him to join into their conflict against the Hand. Murdock eventually managed to find a middle ground with Punisher while battling the Hand. However, he lost Elektra in the process while his law firm was dissolved due to Nelson's struggles to cope with Murdock's double life.

Following the death of Elektra and Nelson's departure, Murdock retired from being Daredevil and attempted to live a regular life as a lawyer, telling Karen Page his secret identity in the hope of repairing their relationship. However, once the Hand began their attack on New York and successfully resurrected Elektra, Murdock began investigating them and represented Jessica Jones in order to find out what she knew. Murdock, resuming the mantle of Daredevil, joined forces with Jones, Luke Cage and Iron Fist to form the Defenders and defeat the Hand. In a final effort to redeem Elektra, Daredevil stayed behind with her as Midland Circle collapsed around them.

Murdock managed to survive the building's destruction and was taken into the care of childhood guardians Paul Lantom and Maggie Grace, the latter of whom he discovered was his mother. During his recuperation, Murdock learned that Fisk, now known as Kingpin, had been released from prison and as a result chose to focus primarily on being Daredevil in order to stop Fisk. However, Kingpin learned of his identity and retaliated by recruiting Benjamin Poindexter to impersonate Daredevil and frame him for multiple murders. Murdock eventually managed to gain the upper hand over Kingpin and defeated him once again, blackmailing him to ensure that he remained in prison. With Fisk behind bars, Murdock, Nelson and Page created a new law firm to continue fighting injustice.

In 2018, Murdock survived the Snap. Discovering that Fisk had survived as well and had been released from prison, Murdock resumed his vigilante activities as Daredevil. A few years later, while observing rival criminal factions attempt to seize Fisk's properties, he came into a brief conflict with Maya Lopez, where he swiftly defeated her before escaping the premises. In 2024, Murdock represented Peter Parker, who was accused of murdering Mysterio and had his identity as Spider-Man exposed to the world. Murdock successfully exonerated Parker of his criminal charges and also represented Happy Hogan during a federal investigation into missing Stark technology.

The following year, Murdock acquired a new yellow suit from Luke Jacobson and traveled to Los Angeles to defend him in court against Eugene Patilio and She-Hulk, clearing Jacobson of all charges. When Patilio subsequently kidnapped Jacobson, Daredevil joined forces with She-Hulk to rescue him, resulting in a one-night stand, before he returned home. Later that year, Murdock was hanging out at Josie's Bar with Page and Nelson when Poindexter opened fire on the bar, resulting in Nelson's death. Following a fight, an infuriated Murdock threw Bullseye off the roof of the bar in an attempt to kill him, although Poindexter survived and was sentenced to life in prison. Feeling that a moral line had been crossed, Murdock decided to retire from being Daredevil.

By 2026, Murdock created a new life for himself, starting the Murdock & McDuffie law firm with Kirsten McDuffie and dating Heather Glenn. As Fisk was elected Mayor of New York and vigilantism began to be outlawed, Murdock took on the case of Hector Ayala, who had been accused of murdering a police officer, and unmasked him publicly as White Tiger. This won them the case, but resulted in Ayala being assassinated by an officer. When Ayala's niece, Angela Del Toro, took up his investigation of the serial killer Muse, Murdock was forced to resume being Daredevil in order to rescue her. Murdock then attended the inaugural Black & White Ball hosted by Fisk and learned that Vanessa Fisk had ordered the hit on Nelson, but was interrupted when Poindexter attempted to assassinate Fisk, with Murdock taking the bullet for Fisk, who then had the AVTF try to kill Murdock. Aided by Punisher, Murdock was able to evade death and reunited with Page. The two of them were able to uncover the truth behind Nelson's death, and Murdock founded a rebellion to thwart Mayor Fisk.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### Raised by Jack Murdock

 
 
Matthew Murdock was born in the mid-1980s to Maggie Grace, a nun, and Jack Murdock, a washed-up boxer. Shortly after Matthew's birth, Grace returned to the church after being unable to properly care for her son due to postpartum depresssion, and as a result, Matthew was raised solely by his father. Matthew was brought up in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan, and resided at the intersection of 39th Street and 8th Avenue. Growing up, Jack consistently urged his son to study hard and make something of himself, as he did not want Matthew would not end up like him.
 ]]
When Jack returned from boxing matches, Matthew stitched his injuries. During one of these sessions, Jack allowed Matthew to have a drink of scotch in order to help him keep a steady hand. At night, Matthew listens to sirens and created scenarios in his head to imagine what the emergencies were. 

#### Accidentally Blinded

 
 
In 1994, when he was nine years old, Murdock saved an elderly man from being hit by a RAND Oil & Chemicals truck, causing an accident. Hazardous chemicals from the flipped truck splashed on his face and came in contact with his eyes, and Murdock was blinded. The last sight he had was of his father trying to comfort him. He screamed in pain and fear when he realized he would never see again.

He woke up in the hospital where he found he could hear every sound in the nearby area, which caused him pain. His father tried desperately to comfort him. He let his son touch his face so he could recognize that it was him, which seemed to calm him down. 
 face]]
Over the next few months, Murdock learned to read Braille and began to control his heightened senses, although he kept them a secret from everyone, even his father. His father continued to work as a boxer despite losing almost all his fights. One day, he returned home while Matt was reading in Braille with severe bruises on his face. Jack let Matt touch his face and made him promise not to be a boxer like him. One day, while Matt was reading in Fogwell's Gym, he overheard Jack being offered money to lose his upcoming fight with Carl Creel.
 ]]
Matt listened to his father's fight with Creel on the television and cheered when Jack overcame the odds and won the match. He waited at home for his father's return, but became worried when he did not arrive. Matt ran to Fogwell's Gym and was stopped by a police officer. Matt managed to push his way past the officer and found his father lying on the street, having been murdered by local mobsters. Matt fell to his knees and begged his father to wake up before crying over his father's lifeless body. 

#### Living at the Orphanage

 ]]
 
Following the demise of his father, Murdock moved into Saint Agnes Orphanage, where he experienced terrible nightmares, causing him to wake up in his sweat screaming. To help him deal with this, Maggie Grace would sit and hold his hand until he fell back asleep. This had worked until one night, after he called for help after another nightmare, nobody came, due to Grace tending to other children. It was this event that caused Murdock to never ask for help again. Murdock held the record for the most s for five years in a row. 

#### Trained by Stick

 eat ice cream]]
 
While still at the orphanage, Murdock was visited by an old blind man named Stick. Stick knew about Murdock's enhanced senses and how they makes him suffer, so he took him outside for ice cream. While they sat together, Stick asked Murdock what he could understand about nearby people just from listening to them. Stick promised to train Murdock to control and master his "gift." Murdock kept the wrapper from his ice cream, planning on giving it to Stick as a present.
 ]]
Stick began a harsh training regime with Murdock, often pushing an emotional response from him to teach him to control his anger. Over the next few months and years, Murdock became a powerful fighter with almost complete control of his blindness. During one of their training sessions, Murdock gave Stick the wrapper from his ice cream, having made it into a bracelet. Stick crushed it in his hand and told him he could no longer train him. 

#### Conversations with Paul Lantom

 ]]
 
 
One day while practicing twirling his cane, Paul Lantom approached him, commenting on his "fancy moves." Murdock asked if Sister Dora had informed Lantom of Murdock fighting again. He explained that he's supposed to be studying the Catechism for his confirmation in the Spring, and fought because he felt Sister Dora couldn't defend original sin. Lantom sat and asked Murdock how many fights he had been in that week. Murdock asked how many people complained, and Lantom informed him nobody had because they were embarrassed about being beaten by a blind kid. Lantom explained that Murdock being so argumentative was a sign that he's angry.
 discuss fighting]]
Murdock tried to avoid his statement by retorting that Sister Dora should stick to teaching math. Lantom responded by telling him that his habits of arguing and denying that he was angry at others was something he would one day have to deal with in order to find a way to harness it. Murdock replied that if that's God's plan for him, then maybe that was just how it was supposed to happen. Lantom explained that Adam and Eve were not puppets and neither were Human beings and God gave them free will. Murdock explained that God doesn't talk to him, despite praying all the time. Lantom asked if he was upset because he felt that he was being neglected by God. He explained that if he wanted to hear God, then he would have to listen more carefully because he speaks in whispers. 

### College Years

#### Meeting Foggy Nelson

 in their dorm]]
 
Graduating from , Murdock was accepted to Columbia University and received a dorm on campus. He arrived in his room and introduced himself to his new roommate, Foggy Nelson. Nelson had heard of Murdock, as he remembered what had happened to him as a child. Murdock and Nelson immediately formed a strong friendship and Nelson often joked about his blindness while Murdock would tease Nelson about many of his poor life choices, such as his decision to take a course in Punjabi simply to get close to a girl. Nelson once pranked Murdock by moving the furniture in their dorm room into the room across the hall, and Murdock pretended to think that he entered the wrong dorm room. 

#### Escapades with Elektra

 ' first meeting]]
 
In 2005, Murdock and Foggy Nelson decided to sneak into the debutante's ball, through the kitchen, where they were welcomed by the disgruntled waiters. Later, Murdock decided to check out the party, where he sensed a very attractive woman. Before he could meet her, he was approached by one of the bodyguards, who discovered that he was a crasher. However, before he could kick Murdock out, the woman, Elektra Natchios, declared that he was with her.
 steal a car]]
During their conversation, Elektra assumed Murdock to be weak and foolish, by judging him by his wing-tipped shoes, whereas Murdock countered her assumptions by detecting that she was a bored, rich girl who wanted excitement, all by perceiving why she stopped the bodyguard from kicking him out. Impressed that Murdock was able to deduce all of this, Elektra invited him to spend more time with her, noting he was not as stupid as she had initially assumed he would be. Stepping outside the building, she then stole an expensive car before she and Murdock left the party.
 ]]
Elektra and Murdock broke into Fogwell's Gym, where Murdock complained that they would likely get arrested and he would have to pay for the damages, much to Natchios' amusement as she promised to pay the fines. As Elektra began asking questions about his past, Murdock explained, without going into detail, that he was not born blind and that his father was a boxer who had died many years earlier at the hands of Roscoe Sweeney, noting that although he did not know if Sweeney himself killed his father, he did know that Sweeney had at least given the order to kill him.
 ]]
As Murdock continued to discuss his one time attempt to find and confront Sweeney, Elektra jokingly fought him to figure out that Murdock was not exactly blind. Murdock admitted that his blindness was a little more complicated than it first seemed. They had first a small fight, in which they proved themselves equally matched. As the fight went on, their sexual relationship grew tense until they couldn't help and stripped each other off and had sex in the ring, with Murdock wrapping his arms around Elektra's throat lightly, leaving her very happy. 

#### Confronting Roscoe Sweeney

 breaking into a house]]
 
As they strengthened their relationship, Elektra Natchios led Murdock to a mansion that she claimed belonged to an associate of her father. Once they arrived Elektra joked that she should let Murdock drive despite his blindness. As Elektra explained her father's associate was overseas, Murdock picked her up before realizing she did not actually have the keys and therefore, they had to break the window in order to get inside, much to their amusement as Murdock carried her inside.
 discuss their future]]
Once inside, Murdock lay down on the kitchen counter while Elektra cut cheese on his chest and discussed their future once they were married and had houses across the country. Murdock then asked Elektra if she really enjoyed the lifestyle of being a rich woman, to which she explained that while it was fantastic, she would happily trade it all in for a lifetime with just him and smelling his sex during sex, demonstrating this by smashing the expensive glasses which contained expensive champagne that they had poured for themselves, claiming that she did not care about this damage at all.
 ]]
However, they were interrupted when Murdock heard the sound of a car pulling up outside which Elektra claimed was the owner of the house and promised to speak to him herself so he would not be mad about them breaking in. But when Murdock went to investigate, he discovered the entire trip to the house had been a setup by Elektra to make Murdock confront Roscoe Sweeney, the man responsible for his father's murder years earlier and the owner of this house, who was now pinned under Elektra's heel much to Murdock's confusion and horror as this surprise took him completely off-guard.
 ]]
Elektra explained that she had finally tracked down Sweeney in Monte Carlo where he had been living under several different aliases. Under the advice of Elektra, Murdock revealed his own identity to Sweeney and proceeded to beat him to a bloody pulp in revenge for his father's murder, but he then refused Elektra's proposal to kill Sweeney by cutting his throat. Elektra expressed her own sudden disappointment in Murdock and, while Murdock called the police to report Sweeney as a wanted felon, Elektra then vanished, leaving Murdock, and not seeing him again. A heartbroken Murdock was nearly expelled from school when he began neglecting his school work for a semester and almost missed a final exam. 

#### Avocados at Law

 joke at night]]
 
Murdock and Foggy Nelson swore to work together for many more years once they had finally graduated from Columbia University. Nelson asked about Elektra as he did not remember her name and Murdock declared that their relationship ended because it did not work out. Nelson and Murdock then joked about their future as lawyers, with Nelson mistakenly saying they would be "avocados" rather than saying the correct Spanish word "abogados" causing Murdock to then tease him.
 
When Murdock revealed to Nelson that he had his first alcoholic drink when he was nine, because he had to stitch his father up after a fight, Nelson comforted him, saying that if he could see him now, his father would be proud of the man he had become while Nelson noted his whole family were coming to his graduation. They then continued to talk about their future as Murdock noted that they should call their future law firm Nelson and Murdock as it sounded better that way, joking that while he was blind his hearing was still excellent before they then got up to continue their night of drinking together and discussing a future of working together. 

#### Landman and Zack

 ]]
 s?|Matt Murdock and Foggy Nelson|Nelson v. Murdock}}
By 2014, Murdock and Foggy Nelson had graduated from Columbia University and were hired as interns at Landman and Zack. Murdock and Nelson pooled their money together to buy a bottle of O'Melveny's with the idea that they would only drink it whenever they won a case. At Landman and Zack, they found themselves being forced to defend many large and highly profitable corporations, such as the Roxxon Corporation, against innocent people whose lives they were ruining; one such case which disgusted Murdock personally was when he had to defend Roxxon against an older man who had been poisoned by Roxxon.
 ]]
Eventually, the pair were both offered permanent jobs inside the firm, which Nelson showed great enthusiasm about, but believing that working for such a soulless company was not the right direction for them to go in, Murdock managed to convince the skeptical Nelson not to take the job offer and instead start up their own law firm, Nelson and Murdock where they could really help innocent people and make a difference to New York City. Although he was highly unsure, Nelson eventually agreed and quit Landman and Zack with Murdock in order to pursue their dream of working together. 

#### First Vigilante Mission

 
 
The night after he and Foggy Nelson quit Landman and Zack, Murdock had trouble sleeping because he kept hearing his neighbor's daughter crying at night, as her father was sexually abusing her while her mother was asleep. Murdock contacted Child Protective Services to have the man arrested but he was able to get away with the crime, being smart enough not to leave a mark on his daughter, while his wife refused to believe the abuse was occurring. Seeing that the man would not face justice, Murdock covered his eyes and donned a hoodie and ambushed him at a train yard where he worked. Murdock beat him up severely and threatened that if the man ever touched his daughter again, he would know about it. Murdock then left him bloody and unconscious and smelled the blood on his fingers before he ran away. He returned home, and slept well once he heard that the man would spend the next month in a hospital, unable to eat.
 share a drink]]
Murdock later joined Nelson for a drink at Josie's Bar where Nelson expressed his concern as Murdock had claimed that his injuries were due to an accident. Nelson meanwhile invited Murdock to feel the drawing he had done of Nelson and Murdock's sign which would go outside of their Law Office in the future. Although Nelson made it clear that he was highly nervous about what their future held, he claimed that because he trusted in Murdock's judgement, he was with him for whatever came next and believed that they make Nelson and Murdock a success by working together. During his vigilantism, Murdock caused nine broken bones when he stopped three men from robbing tourists. A few days later, Murdock heard a woman screaming in an alley and saved her life from kidnappers. 

### The Masked Vigilante

#### Confession to Paul Lantom

 ]]
 
Murdock chose to take his vigilante career to the next level in order to protect the people of New York City. He bought a black outfit online, including a new black eyeless mask, which covered the top half of his face, and wore it when fighting crime. Later, Murdock went to confession at Clinton Church, telling stories about growing up with his father before claiming he was not there to seek forgiveness for what he had done, but was asking forgiveness for what he was about to do. Murdock refrained from telling Paul Lantom his intentions. 

#### Rescue of Kidnapped Women

 
 
The same night, Murdock tracked Turk Barrett, who was now leading a group of Russian Mafia gangsters engaged in both kidnapping and sex trafficking under the orders of Vladimir and Anatoly Ranskahov. They planned on transporting a group of young women into a shipping container and threatened to torture them if they resisted in any way. Seeing this terrible act, Murdock snuck up behind Barrett's men and attacked, knocking down many of the guards and avoiding Barrett as he attempted to shoot him, having heard the gun clicking before it was fired, before subduing Barrett by throwing a steel beam at his head, which knocked him unconscious to the ground.
 's sex slaves]]
With all the gangsters now defeated, Murdock then threw a steel beam at the bribed watchman, who was just sitting and observing the fight, and knocked him into the river before focusing his efforts on the hostages. He freed the women and ordered them to head towards the city in the light and flag down the first NYPD officer they found, banging on the container door to make them leave faster. As the women ran to freedom, Murdock dodged out of the way of Barrett's gunshot before punching his face multiple times and leaving him to be found and arrested by the police when they arrived. 

#### Acquiring a Law Office

 ]]
 
The very next morning, Murdock was awoken in the early hours by a phone call from Foggy Nelson who ordered him to get out of bed so they could view the new offices, ready to finally open their own law practice Nelson and Murdock, while teasing him about Murdock having possibly spent the night with a woman. Before they went, Nelson joked that he was going to bribe Brett Mahoney, much to Murdock's frustration despite Nelson claiming that he was only joking in case the NSA were listening into their conversation.
 
Murdock and Nelson met with Susan Harris to talk about the office and teased her about which one of them would get the room with a view, with Nelson laughing when Harris awkwardly curtsied in front of Murdock which he then had to explain. Harris told Murdock that the building had been barely damaged at all during the Battle of New York which was why it was on the market for such a low price. Murdock made her an offer on the office which was soon accepted and he and Nelson both agreed to move in. Nelson initially protested as he felt they were not making enough profit as a law firm to even consider buying office spaces like these, although Murdock insisted it was the right move. 

#### Defending Karen Page

 meet Karen Page]]
 
Shortly after moving into their office, Foggy Nelson received a call from Brett Mahoney, who informed him that Karen Page had been found in her apartment having seemingly murdered her colleague Daniel Fisher with a knife. Nelson and Murdock met Page and offered to represent her. When she asked how long the pair had been practicing law, Murdock told her it had been seven hours so they were actively seeking clients. Murdock listened to Page's heartbeat while she told them what had occurred; hearing that her heart rate was not changing, Murdock knew she was telling the truth.
 discuss the case]]
Murdock convinced Nelson that they should take on her case, and quickly told him that he believed that Page was innocent of her crime which Nelson was highly skeptical of. Murdock, however, noted that it was strange that the police were not taking her straight to trial as the evidence seemed so obvious, therefore he felt that there was something wrong with this case. Nelson proceeded to lecture Murdock about his history with beautiful and dangerous women, but had agreed to back Murdock's theory. They began work on finding who had actually committed the violent murder and if Page was being completely honest.
 and Hoffman]]
Later that night, they learned that Page was almost assassinated in her prison cell by officer Clyde Farnum, so they managed to have her freed on bail. Murdock and Nelson personally confronted Christian Blake and Carl Hoffman to ensure that Page was released from their custody, much to their annoyance. Blake eventually agreed but made a point to threaten Murdock, noting that he did not care that he was blind as if he used the same tone with him again, he would be willing to beat him senseless. Once Blake and Hoffman left, Murdock noted that this case made no logical sense.
 's confession]]
Back in their own offices, Nelson stole some tea without any milk to make Page feel comfortable as he and Murdock began to question her about who would try to kill her and why; she eventually revealed that she had discovered an illegal money laundering scheme inside Union Allied Construction, who she had worked for, and had been found out by her boss, McClintock. As it was clear that Page should not stay in her own apartment, Murdock allowed her to stay at his apartment in order to keep her safe as she was clearly terrified for her own safety and the safety of anyone close to her.
 ]]
Once home, Murdock explained that he would be sleeping on the couch as a large sign outside his window caused the living room to be constantly filled with light, so Page would only get a good night's sleep in his bed. Murdock then gave her new clothes, and Page briefly asked him if he had always been blind, to which he explained his story. Murdock asked her more questions about what had happened with her and Union Allied. When he asked if she still had the incriminating files she had discovered, Page lied and told him she did not. However, he could hear her heart racing and secretly realized she was lying. 

#### Attack on Karen Page

 attacking Karen Page]]
 
During the rainy night, Karen Page snuck out of Matt Murdock's Apartment, unaware that he was still awake and had followed her to her home where she was collecting the hard-drive she had taken from Union Allied Construction. Murdock discovered Page moments before she was attacked by Rance, who slammed her head against a wall and prepared to cut her throat. Murdock engaged Rance in a fight, throwing himself and his enemy out the window.
 from Rance]]
Although Rance proved to be a highly dangerous enemy, using his knife to attempt to cut Murdock's flesh and kill him, Murdock was able to use his heightened senses to predict when the attacks were coming and fight back against Rance. Murdock eventually used his strength and determination to defeat the assassin, wrapping a chain around his neck and knocking him out with a final kick in front of the shocked Page. Murdock first promised to take the hard-drive to the New York City Police Department, but Page warned him that this would not work as the police were clearly far too corrupt.
 ]]
Believing that Page was correct, Murdock took the assassin to the offices of the New York Bulletin along with the hard-drive in order to expose Union Allied Construction's corruption to all of New York City in one go. This caused Page to be set free and all charges against her to be dropped, for which she thanked Nelson and Murdock by cooking them a meal that was a family secret recipe. Both Foggy Nelson and Murdock then happily agreed to hire Page to work as a secretary for their new law firm as she promised she would work for free to begin with at least, which pleased them all greatly. 

#### Meeting Claire Temple

 
 
Having trained at Fogwell's Gym for a while, Murdock put on his suit and stood on his rooftop, where he heard the cries of a kidnapped boy. However, Murdock was surprised by an ambush arranged by Russian Mafia, who had lured him into a warehouse, where they ambushed him. Despite putting up his best fight while escaping, Murdock still came out with several knife wounds and ended up falling unconscious into a dumpster, unable to move from his injuries sustained in their fight.
 
Murdock remained hidden inside the dumpster, bleeding out from his wounds, until he was found by Santino, who called Claire Temple for help. Temple took Murdock upstairs into her apartment and tried to help him. Being a nurse at Metro-General Hospital, Temple quickly diagnosed all of Murdock's knife wounds and tended to them while she quickly discovered that he was blind by shining a light in his eye. Murdock woke and tried to leave, claiming the Ranskahovs would kill everyone to get to him, but Temple still insisted that he had to stay as his wounds were too severe.
 ]]
Before he could leave, however, Murdock collapsed on the floor and lost consciousness, recalling memories of his own father as he slept. Eventually, Murdock awoke on the sofa to find Temple watching over him, who introduced herself as the "lucky" girl who had pulled him out of the garbage. While Murdock was horrified that Temple had seen his face, she questioned how a blind man had now ended up in this condition. Noting that most people would have called the New York City Police Department upon finding him, Murdock questioned why Temple had helped him, which she did not answer.
 
As Murdock refused to give her his name, Temple called him "Mike" before advising that he got some sleep to try and recover from his wounds. While dreaming of the night he had been blinded, Murdock suddenly awoke to find himself unable to breathe. Desperately calling on Temple for help, she discovered he had air in his chest and managed to expel it, saving Murdock's life. Temple demanded a reason to keep him there, so he explained how Veles Taxi had kidnapped a boy whom he had just failed to save, admitting he had walked into the Ranskahovs' trap, deeming himself stupid.
 ]]
After a while, Murdock smelled someone wearing strong aftershave and cologne coming up the stairs looking for him. While Murdock got a kitchen knife, Temple told him to not attack the man coming and let her talk to him, as he was not strong enough to stand straight, let alone fight. Temple answered the door while Murdock hid against the wall, and the man claimed to be a police officer looking for the suspect of a robbery, in which a masked man was responsible. Temple, however, told the man that she had not seen anything like that.
 ]]
The mobster left, but Murdock heard him on the phone and knew that he had not believed her and was currently informing the Ranskahovs of where he believed the Masked Man was hiding. Seeking to stop the mobster as soon as he could to ensure Temple's safety, Murdock chased him down and used his enhanced senses to precisely drop a fire extinguisher down onto the mobster's head, knocking him out without killing him. Murdock noticed that Santino had witnessed the attack and ran away back into his own apartment. Together, both Murdock and Temple dragged the unconscious mobster up to the roof. 

#### Questioning Semyon

 to wake back up]]
 
Once onto the roof, Murdock tied up Semyon for interrogation while asking Claire Temple if she had found anything on his phone. Temple explained the phone had been smashed when Semyon was hit with the extinguisher. Murdock and Temple debated why she chose to help him, with Temple explaining that she had tried to help a man in need and found a man clearly capable of much more than a normal man. Murdock quipped that his ability to take punishment without complaining was more likely due to his Catholicism.
 
When Murdock noted that nobody would take in somebody like him purely out of faith, Temple admitted that while working at Metro-General Hospital as a nurse, she had been hearing even more stories recently of the New York City Police Department bringing in criminals who had been stopped by a masked man, as well as a nineteen-year-old waitress who had been saved from an attempted rape. While Temple claimed to want to believe in Murdock's mission, he confessed to knowing that she was afraid. He encouraged Temple that she must not give into the fear that she was feeling or the men like Semyon and those he worked for would win against them.
 ]]
Murdock provided Temple with a mask and began questioning the mobster on the location of the missing boy, threatening that he would hurt him when he lied. Murdock demanded to know where Anatoly and Vladimir Ranskahov were keeping the kidnapped boy, to which Semyon claimed the boy was dead. Murdock then hit Semyon for lying but still failed to get the truth from him, with Semyon mocking Murdock for falling for his plan. Desperate to find the boy, Temple suggested that Murdock should stab Semyon just above his eye-socket, causing him incredible pain.
 's own life]]
When that still did not work, Murdock admitted that Semyon was right in that if he killed him, then another Russian thug would take his place. However, he promised that sooner or later, one of them would talk. Cutting Semyon free, Murdock then dragged him across the roof and threatened to throw him off the edge. As Murdock claimed to enjoy the fear this put in him, Semyon eventually gave in and told him exactly where the boy was: underneath the Troika Restaurant in New York City which was controlled by the Russians. Semyon claimed the Ranskahov brothers would kill Murdock as soon as he arrived at the restaurant.
 ]]
Sick of hearing his mockeries, Murdock still threw Semyon off the roof, letting him fall into the same dumpster he had been pulled out from earlier. When Temple asked if Semyon was alive, Murdock assured her he was, having heard his faint heartbeat. Murdock advised Temple to temporarily relocate from her apartment as when Semyon awoke, he would be back with more enemies. As Temple confirmed she had somewhere to go, Murdock requested the address in case he needed her help later on. As he prepared to leave, Temple stated she did not believe Murdock enjoyed what he did. 

#### Rescue of the Kidnapped Boy

 
 
Murdock then went to Troika Restaurant where the boy was being held hostage, silently getting past any guards and preparing to fight to protect the boy from any harm. He arrived and immediately began walking down the hallways and began listening closely to get a sense of where all the Veles Taxi mobsters were positioned, ensuring that he had the best tactical position to try and help the boy however he could, hearing multiple men in two different rooms who were within the hallway.
 
Despite all of the pain he was still in, Murdock gathered all of the strength he had left and began fighting the mobsters hired by Anatoly and Vladimir Ranskahov, while using the element of surprise to his advantage. Charging into the room, Murdock was sure to disarm the men from the guns first, forcing them to fight with their fists where Murdock was at a clear advantage, easily subduing the men during the brawl. Even when the other room came out to help in the fight, Murdock heard them coming and then threw a large safe at one man, knocking him unconscious as the fight continued in the hall.
 ]]
Despite more mobsters coming out and trying to stop his attack, Murdock continued fighting with all of his might against the criminals, determined to beat them back so that he could rescue the child Semyon had told him they were planning on selling. Murdock came out as the winner with all the mobsters lying unconscious on the floor or in too much pain to move as Murdock got to his feet and unlocked the kidnapped boy's door. Murdock then removed his mask and freed the boy, telling him that he was now safe. Murdock carried him from the restaurant and later returned him to his family. 

#### Conversation with Father Lantom

 ]]
 
The next morning, Murdock visited Clinton Church and spoke to Paul Lantom. Lantom told him that he was aware he was Jack Murdock's son but assured him that through the seal of confession he could not tell anyone what they had spoken about. He asked if Murdock was there for confession, but he told him he was not. Lantom then suggested that Murdock should join him for a cup of coffee, but Murdock replied that perhaps they would do so some other time. 

#### Meeting James Wesley

 ]]
 
Back at the law office, Murdock and Foggy Nelson were visited by James Wesley, who asked them to represent his client John Healy, who had just brutally murdered Prohaszka. When Wesley left the office, having insulted Karen Page, Murdock followed him, tracking him by the tick of his watch. Murdock heard Wesley enter a limo, where he spoke to his employer, before being driven away. Murdock considered following him, but had felt a pain in his side and felt blood running from an open wound. Although he showed initial uncertainty towards the case, Murdock decided to take the case in an attempt to learn who was behind the criminal activity in Hell's Kitchen. 

#### The People v. John Healy

 in court]]
 
Meeting him at the 15th Precinct Police Station, Murdock and Foggy Nelson had cross-examined John Healy, who clearly was experienced in court proceedings. They began working out a strategy to get Healy off by claiming self-defense. During the trial, Murdock noticed a female juror's heart begin to beat faster when James Wesley entered. Murdock later found Oscar threatening her and forced him to leave her alone. Murdock later gave a speech during the trial claiming that there was not enough evidence to convict Healy. As the result was being read out, Murdock noticed that another juryman's heart raced as Wesley entered; the jury announced a hung jury, resulting in Healy's freedom. 

#### Learning of Wilson Fisk

 about his employer]]
 
Murdock later tracked down and confronted John Healy. The pair began to fight, Healy using objects around him to attack Murdock. After an exhausting fight, Murdock came out as the victor and began questioning Healy on who his employer was. Eventually, Healy told him the name: Wilson Fisk. Healy told Murdock that now that he had revealed his name, he, his family and his friends would all become targets. Seeing no alternative, Healy called Murdock a coward for not killing him before he slammed his own face into an iron spike, killing him instantly. 

#### Pursuing the Russians

 
 
Murdock later attacked Anatoly Ranskahov and his men, although Anatoly escaped with only minor injuries, Murdock was able to throw one of his men out of a window and onto his car. After escaping, Murdock went to Claire Temple to treat his injuries. Later, he received a phone call from Temple just as she was being kidnapped by Russian Mafia. Murdock ran to her aid but was too late. He spoke to Santino who was able to reveal that she had been taken away in a taxi driven by the Russians.
 ]]
Murdock arrived at the taxi's firm where he found Temple being beaten and tortured by the Russians. Murdock switched off the lights in the room and managed to fight off the Russians in the dark and rescued Temple. He took her back to his apartment and tried to comfort her. Temple asked him to feel her heart and tell her how she was feeling; Murdock knew then that she was terribly afraid for her life. However, Temple assured him that he could do something about that fear. Murdock then revealed to her his real first name. 
 's wound]]
Murdock tended to Temple's wounds and explained that his other senses, such as balance and direction, were enhanced, allowing him to detect micro-changes in air density, vibrations and temperature, which made his impressionistic radar/sonar-like sense. He asked her to stay at his apartment for her safety and they ended up sharing a kiss. The next night, Murdock followed a taxi carrying a blind man to a warehouse. Once there, he attacked the Russians guarding the man, although the blind man was killed after being shot in the cross-fire, Murdock was able to catch one of the gangsters, Piotr.
 ]]
Now confronting Piotr and closely picked him up while he was on the ground, Murdock tried to learn the location of Vladimir Ranskahov, who Temple had heard about when she was captured, but Piotr begged him not to cut off his head. Confused on the remark of killing him, Murdock asked what Piotr meant for having his head decapitated and was told that everyone knows that the masked man had took the head of Anatoly. Before he could learn any more, Murdock threatens Piotr on the accusation of cutting heads before the police arrived, leading Murdock to make his escape and leaving Piotr to be arrested.
 ' problem]]
Back at the office, Murdock began to ask Foggy Nelson and Karen Page whether they had heard about a Russian gangster having his head cut off before they were interrupted by the arrival of Elena Cardenas. Cardenas explained that she needed legal help as her landlord was attempting to kick her out of her property and demolish her home after failing to finish repair work to the property. They agreed to take the case and Murdock told Cardenas that Nelson would speak to her landlord's lawyer while he went to the NYPD. Nelson complained, knowing that the landlord was represented by their former employers Landman and Zack.
 ]]
Murdock arrived at the 15th Precinct Police Station and spoke to Brett Mahoney. Murdock explained the situation to Mahoney and asked to see the complaint files against Armand Tully, who owned Cardenas' home. Mahoney agreed and asked Murdock to wait. While he was waiting, Murdock overheard the questioning of Piotr, the mobster he had attacked the night before. Using his enhanced hearing, Murdock heard Piotr asking for a deal in exchange for information on his employer, Wilson Fisk. However, Christian Blake and Carl Hoffman turned out to be under Fisk's pay and pretended to be attacked by Piotr, killing him before Murdock could do anything.
 ]]
Knowing that the detectives were working for Fisk, Murdock tracked down and attacked Blake. Blake tried to stick to his story that Piotr had attacked his partner, until Murdock began breaking his arm. Murdock asked him why Fisk had Prohaszka murdered; he refused to answer, so Murdock knocked him out and stole his phone. Murdock later called Temple and had her help him look at the phone. Temple told Murdock the phone had a list of four locations which Murdock recognized the addresses as locations under the control of the Russian Mafia. Murdock went to go after the locations, but Temple told him that she could not fall in love with someone who puts his life in danger. 

#### Saving Vladimir Ranskahov

 ]]
 
Murdock traveled to a location from the list on Blake's phone and found a pair of mobsters standing by the door. Murdock began fighting them. During the fight he overheard panic inside the building and knew a bomb was about to be set off. Murdock was shielded by his opponent as the door was blown off towards them as the building exploded, killing the Russians inside. When he awoke, Murdock caught Vladimir Ranskahov attempting to escape the wreckage. He attacked him and knocked him out, but before he could do anything, the police arrived and attempted to arrest him. Murdock was able to fight off the police, who mentioned killing them as they were "told" to leave "no witnesses," meaning that they were corrupt. He was unable to stop Ranskahov from being shot in the side, although he managed to escape with Ranskahov's unconscious body. 
 ]]
Murdock carried Ranskahov to an Abandoned Building and began questioning him. Ranskahov claimed that Murdock was responsible for the Murder of Anatoly Ranskahov and that he had been working with Wilson Fisk. Murdock told him that he had been played by Fisk, who was responsible for Anatoly's murder and the destruction of his warehouses. Murdock offered to help him escape from Fisk's men, in exchange for information that would help him make Fisk pay for everything he had done, Ranskahov crudely refused before losing consciousness.
 's wound]]
Knowing that Ranskahov would die without medical attention, Murdock called Claire Temple for assistance. Murdock explained the situation to Temple and asked her to walk him through saving Ranskahov's life, but when he explained who it was they were helping, Temple was furious. Temple agreed to help and asked Murdock to tell her what tools he had available. Murdock used his heightened senses to detect a flare in the warehouse. Under Temple's instruction, Murdock lit the flare and used it to burn Ranskahov's open wound, sealing it. Ranskahov screamed in agony until he lost consciousness again. 

 ]]
Murdock heard Sullivan arriving in the warehouse, after hearing Ranskahov's screams. Murdock attacked him and began questioning him. Murdock realized that the officer was a new cop who had not been paid off by Fisk. Murdock ordered the man to call off backup, but instead, the officer told them that he had been taken hostage. Murdock was unable to knock him out in time to stop him. Murdock tied up the officer before pulling the officer's gun apart and throwing it away. Murdock began questioning Ranskahov again, who asked him about his morals on not killing people but being willing to let people die.
 's life]]
Murdock reminded Ranskahov that Fisk had taken down his operation and had enough police in his pocket to ensure that Ranskahov was killed before he could leak information. Ranskahov agreed and told the man about his first encounter with Fisk and how their operation first came about. Murdock learned that Fisk was working with the Chinese. Ranskahov told him there was one name he needed to know, the name of Fisk's money man. When Murdock leaned in to hear it, Ranskahov attacked him, causing them to fall through the floorboards. 

#### Speaking with Wilson Fisk

 
 
The pair survived the fall and Murdock told him that it was not a smart thing to do. Vladimir Ranskahov then lost consciousness again, and this time, he went into cardiac arrest, before Murdock performed CPR and saved his life. Afterwards Murdock began to look for a way out, finding a sewage manhole cover but finding it was too hard to lift alone. He was interrupted when Wilson Fisk used Sullivan's radio to contact them. Murdock picked up the radio and spoke to his enemy for the first time. Fisk told him that they had a lot in common, but Murdock assured him that they did not and would brought down.
 on the radio]]
Fisk told Murdock that his part in the drama would end that night, as he would be blamed for the bombings. Fisk had then offered Murdock the chance to kill Ranskahov and go free, noting all of the crimes Ranskahov was guilty of. When Murdock refused, Fisk ordered his men to open fire at the New York City Police Department and release footage of Murdock attacking police. Fisk then hung up his radio contact, believing Murdock to be killed that night. Murdock called Claire Temple to say goodbye and began searching for a way out. However, Ranskahov helped Murdock to show him the way through the sewer.
 behind]]
Once in the sewer, they were attacked by a small team of ESU officers, Murdock was able to beat them but found the wounded Ranskahov had taken one of their guns and was aiming it at him. Ranskahov told him that he planned on staying behind and fighting to the death, as his testimony would not lead to Fisk's arrest and only death would stop Fisk. Murdock insisted that he was not a killer. Ranskahov told him that Fisk would destroy his life and his family. He then told him that Fisk's money man's name was Leland Owlsley. Murdock then escaped as Ranskahov fought until his death. 

#### Devil of Hell's Kitchen

 
 
At the office, Murdock, Foggy Nelson and Karen Page discussed the Bombing of Hell's Kitchen and the masked man they held responsible, whom had been dubbed the "Devil of Hell's Kitchen." Due to the narrative that the Devil had murdered NYPD officers and had committed the bombings, Nelson had become convinced that the Devil was a terrorist while Page insisted he was not. Murdock claimed that while he was angry about Nelson and Elena Cardenas being hurt, he did not wish to condemn the actions of vigilantes straight away and that as lawyers they need to think differently. Murdock even stated that he would represent the vigilante, as was his right, although Nelson strongly disagreed. Page left, not saying where, so Nelson brought up her not telling them something, which Murdock responded by saying that everyone had secrets. Murdock stayed after Nelson left and read up on Leland Owlsley. 

#### Reunion with Stick

 ]]
 
Murdock later tracked down and attacked Leland Owlsley who had just had a meeting with Nobu Yoshioka about transporting something secret that night. Murdock pinned Owlsley against his own car and demanded to know for whom he worked; when Owlsley lied and claimed he worked for Silver & Brent, Murdock punched him and explained that he knew he worked for Wilson Fisk and demanded to know what Fisk's upcoming plans were for New York City. Before he could get any more information from him, however, he was distracted by the sound of a man with a stick approaching; Owlsley used this moment to stun Murdock with a taser before escaping.
 ]]
As Murdock lay on the ground and recovered from the shock of the taser, the man with the walking stick revealed himself to be Murdock's own former mentor Stick, who arrived and berated him for being beaten by an old man despite all the training they had done when Murdock was a child. Murdock rose to his feet and questioned what Stick was doing in Hell's Kitchen to which he claimed that he was there to save Murdock and everyone else in New York City from a horrible death, although Murdock remained somewhat skeptical of his true motives for returning to the city and seeking him out.
 by Stick]]
Murdock brought Stick back to his apartment, where Stick began to immediately insult his comfortable lifestyle. Murdock argued that Stick was just pissed off he had made something of his life without his help. Stick told him he should abandon his life and live as a warrior, but when he insulted Jack Murdock's legacy, Murdock attacked him but was only able to break his hold. Stick revealed he was there to continue his war by fighting the Japanese and wanted the weapon Nobu Yoshioka was transporting, known as the Black Sky. Murdock agreed to help if Stick promised not to kill anyone, to which Stick agreed. 

#### Attack on Black Sky

 pursue Nobu Yoshioka]]
 
The pair arrived at the dock that same night and soon discovered Yoshioka and his soldiers moving a Asano Robotics container from a cargo ship. Stick had Murdock identify how many soldiers were there and if they were armed with guns or not, which Murdock quickly confirmed that they were by listening and smelling all the senses around the area. Having worked out the situation, Stick sent Murdock down to the docks in order to silently subdue as many of Yoshioka's guards as he could as swiftly as he could while Stick remained on the rooftop and awaited his signal to move down and join him there.
 's men]]
Stick sent Murdock down to fight off Yoshioka's soldiers; he went down and silently knocked out a few of the guards without raising the alarm. When the container was opened, Murdock realized that Black Sky was, in fact, a young child. Sensing that Stick was preparing to shoot the child with an arrow, Murdock then leaped into action and deflected the arrow, alerting the guards to his presence. Yoshioka escaped with Black Sky and Murdock fought off the guards. When the guards were defeated, Murdock realized Stick was gone. 

#### Confrontation with Stick

 ]]
 
Returning to his apartment, Murdock found Stick waiting for him there. Upon being confronted about lying about what was hidden inside the container, Stick revealed that he had hunted down and murdered the Black Sky. Furious at the realization, Murdock attacked his former mentor; during the fight, most of Murdock's apartment was damaged or destroyed. Stick was able to maintain the upper hand during the majority of their fight as he even began kicking Murdock as he lay wounded on the floor, but in the end, Murdock managed to defeat him. Murdock threw Stick's bag at him and demanded that he leave his home and never return to New York City again.
 's motive]]
As Stick collected his belongings and got to his feet, he mockingly claimed that there was hope for Murdock yet to join the Chaste and that it had been nice to catch up with him. Once Stick had gone, Murdock was cleaning up his apartment when he found the bracelet he had made for Stick as a child, which he believed Stick had destroyed when he had left him as a child during their training together. Upon finding his token of his love for his mentor, Murdock sat in silence and tried to consider what Stick's motive's were for tracking him down after so many years being apart. 

### Exposing Fisk

#### Meeting Ben Urich

 and Page]]
 
The next morning, Murdock awoke in his wrecked apartment and went to work. Arriving, Murdock overheard Foggy Nelson and Karen Page discussing their secret investigation of Union Allied Construction. Murdock tried to convince them to leave it alone for their own good, but Page was insistent. They told him they were working with Ben Urich, who would break the story for them. Murdock agreed to help them, as long as they promised, they would bring down Union Allied through the legal system. While they investigated the case, Page told them Detective Christian Blake had just woken up in hospital after being shot.
 ]]
When Murdock arrived at Blake's hospital ward, he found Carl Hoffman injecting him with poison. Murdock put Hoffman in a chokehold and knocked him out before turning his attention to Blake. He locked the door and informed Blake the poison had already reached his heart; there was nothing anyone could do to save his life. The vigilante told Blake to tell him everything he knew about Wilson Fisk. Once Blake had given him the information he needed, Murdock escaped the room moments before the police kicked down the door and found Blake lying dead.
 ]]
Murdock tracked down Ben Urich, the journalist that Page had been speaking to. Murdock insisted he was not the one responsible for the explosions in Hell's Kitchen and wanted Urich to expose Fisk. Urich was initially unsure about this claim and pressed Murdock for proof, but was unable to provide any. However, Murdock did reveal to Urich the details of Fisk's operation, including Leland Owlsley's involvement and Fisk's part in the murder of Detective Blake. Urich ultimately agreed to write the article. However, Fisk made a public announcement which contradicted everything Urich would have said. 

#### Questioning Morality

 discuss the Devil]]
 , Father?" "You mean as a concept?" "No, do you believe he exists, in this world, among us?|Matt Murdock and Paul Lantom|Speak of the Devil}}
Considering the recent events, Murdock went to Paul Lantom for counsel and accepted his offer for a latte. Once Lantom had poured his coffee, Murdock asked him if he believed in the Devil and if it walked among them. Lantom told Murdock the tale of a holy man he had met while working overseas; Lantom had witnessed the man and his entire family murdered by a military commander. Lantom claimed that he had seen the in the eyes of the man who had murdered his friend.
 discuss their case]]
Murdock arrived back at the offices of Nelson and Murdock to find Ben Urich was having a meeting with Karen Page and Foggy Nelson about what to do about bringing down Fisk. Murdock joined the debate, agreeing with most of Urich's points as they both wanted to keep everyone as safe as possible; they discussed tracking down Armand Tully who was responsible for moving tenants from their homes under Fisk's orders. When Page commented on how "bad ass" the man in the mask was, Murdock could not help but smile, despite Nelson still claiming that the man was a terrorist.
 ]]
As their leads proved more and more fruitless, they were visited by Elena Cardenas, who revealed that Wilson Fisk had doubled the offer to get the tenants to move from their homes. They agreed to refuse the offer and to continue to fight back. After she had gone, however, Murdock argued that it was too dangerous to fight Fisk this way as he was sure to win. He told them to continue digging as he believed they would find some lost document somewhere. Murdock then went out to look for the woman who appeared with Fisk at his press event; Page confirmed which art gallery she worked and Murdock left. 

#### Meeting Wilson Fisk

 discuss art]]
 
Murdock arrived at the Scene Contempo Gallery where he was soon approached by Vanessa Marianna. Murdock jokingly explained the reasons for a blind man looking to purchase art as he claimed his guests would often state his home was a bit stark and he wished to warm it up. Marianna began describing some of the pieces of artwork for Murdock to imagine. He then asked her if she was seeing anyone, claiming to wish to know what a man who won her heart appreciated in art.
 at the art gallery]]
Just as they were speaking, Wilson Fisk arrived in the building; although he had to control his anger, Murdock greeted him warmly. Fisk claimed that if he wished to purchase art, he should buy whatever Marianna suggested; Murdock, however, then reminded him that they should not be speaking as they were on opposing sides of a law case involving Elena Cardenas and Armand Tully. The pair then briefly discussed their own hopes for the future of New York City, with Fisk claiming that its future meant a great deal to him, until Murdock left claiming he needed to consider the cost of the art work.
 ]]
Seeking moral guidance, Murdock went to visit Paul Lantom again. Murdock told Lantom that he had been to visit someone close to the devil and had only learned that Fisk now had someone he loved, who loved him. Lantom tried to convince Murdock to leave the judgment to God, as he did not wish for Murdock to commit murder. Murdock and Lantom discussed if it was better to commit murder or allow someone to cause harm without being stopped. Lantom then posed the question if Murdock was struggling that he had to kill the Devil but did not want to, or that he did not have to but wanted to. 

#### Death of Elena Cardenas

 ]]
 
Returning to the Nelson and Murdock Law Office the next morning, Murdock informed Karen Page that he had not gotten the information he had wanted from Marianna while Page revealed that they had identified Stewart Schmidt and Joseph Pike as her attackers from the other night. Foggy Nelson then arrived and changing the subject, presented Murdock with an official sign for Nelson and Murdock that they had designed years earlier when the firm was just a dream of theirs and they shared a laugh as they teased each other. While they were celebrating, however, Page received a call that Elena Cardenas had been murdered.
 is dead]]
They went together to identify the body and Brett Mahoney revealed that a junkie had stabbed Cardenas multiple times while stealing her purse outside her apartment door and she had died at the scene. As Mahoney noted that his mother who had been a friend of Cardenas' had informed him that her family were all dead, Murdock and Nelson promised that they would take charge of all funeral arrangements. While Nelson comforted the heartbroken Page, Murdock stood in silence and gripped his blind stick tighter as he planned his own revenge against those responsible for his friend's senseless murder.
 ]]
The group went to Josie's Bar to drown their sorrows with alcohol, with Josie giving them the drinks for free; there they discussed the idea that Cardenas' death was not a random act of violence but a planned assassination. While they were talking, Wilson Fisk appeared on the Television claiming to be mourning Cardenas' death. Murdock and Page then discussed religion where Murdock revealed his own Catholic beliefs and how they helped him cope with emotional pain. Murdock then claimed to have had enough and left the bar to head back home, promising Fisk would get what he deserved. 

#### Hunting the Junkie

 
 
Returning to his apartment, Murdock pulled out the box containing his black suit and prepared himself to go out into New York City in his search for justice. Pausing for a while to consider what he was willing to do and what it would mean for his own soul, Murdock decided this was the right thing for him to do and, putting on his black suit, Murdock hunted down the junkie who had murdered Elena Cardenas. Finding all those with the Steel Serpent heroin, Murdock demanded to know where the man was who had killed her was living, threatening to break a man's arm.
 's killer]]
Eventually, Murdock's interrogation skills paid off and he found the man who kills Cardenas high on drugs before he violently questioned him, throwing him into broken glass which cut both of his hands. As Junkie Jake claimed not to know the names of the men who hired him, stating he had been taken to Pier 81 Warehouse and given his orders by a man in a suit and that he did not want to commit the murder but he was sick from his need for drugs. Having gained the information he needed, Murdock then ordered the man to go and surrender himself to Brett Mahoney at the police station. 

#### Duel at Pier 81

 ]]
 
Arriving at the Pier 81 Warehouse, armed with his escrima sticks, Murdock was confronted by Nobu Yoshioka, who was wearing an all red ninja suit. Murdock complimented Yoshioka on his ability to slow his heartbeat and reduce his own body temperature to ensure the encounter was a surprise. Murdock noted he remembered Yoshioka from the sale of the Black Sky which he and Stick had stopped, although Murdock insisted he was not a part of the war between the Chaste and the Hand while Yoshioka noted his displeasure at what had occurred.
 ]]
As the two fought a violent battle, Murdock was vastly outmatched and was cut and stabbed repeatedly by Yoshioka's Kyoketsu-Shoge. As it appeared that Murdock would not be able to fight anymore and was close to death, Yoshioka commented that Murdock was a worthy opponent and that he considered it to be an honor to claim his life. Eventually, Murdock, barely able to stand, managed to kick Yoshioka, which caused a damaged fuel tank to leak onto Yoshioka's feet, which got ignited and immolated him when Murdock deflected his blade into a lamp that showered sparks down upon Yoshioka.
 ]]
The sparks ignited causing Yoshioka to burst into flames and, despite still attempting to continue the fight, the ninja quickly died from his wounds, falling to the ground as his body continued to burn. However, before he could escape, Murdock was confronted by Wilson Fisk, who was accompanied by James Wesley and one of his guards. Fisk claimed he had used Murdock to murder Yoshioka, although he had wished that they had killed each other as he also wanted Yoshioka dead, and admitted to organizing the death of Elena Cardenas in order to draw him to this location for this final battle.
 ]]
Murdock told him he would kill him for everything he had done and although his men threatened to shoot Murdock, Fisk confidently ordered them to stand down and invited him to take his shot. As the two began fighting, but the wounded Murdock was no match for Fisk and was brutally beaten. During the fight, he tried to cut Fisk using Yoshioka's and learned he was wearing Melvin Potter's body armor within his suit which protected him. This close encounter only enraged Fisk further as he proceeded to violently beat Murdock into submission, smashing his body against a table.
 ]]
As Murdock lay wounded and the fight finally over as it appeared that the Masked Man had no more energy to defend himself, Fisk noted that he was disappointed at the fight's conclusion before he ordered both James Wesley and Francis to shoot him and put an end to his vigilante activities. Refusing to give up, however, Murdock threw one of his sticks to block Wesley's gun and then managed to dodge the bullets before he leapt from the window into the water and swim back to New York City and to safety before Fisk and his men could find him and finish the job of finally killing him as was planned.
 ]]
Despite his many life threatening injuries, Murdock eventually made it back to his apartment where he crashed into several items which alerted Foggy Nelson who was at the door. Nelson managed to break inside the apartment to check on his close friend's well being and discovered Murdock stood in the suit before he collapsed from his wounds. As Murdock lay on the ground, he was unmasked by Nelson who first suspected that the Masked Man had kidnapped his friend but then was mortified to discover his friend was actually the vigilante of Hell's Kitchen the whole time without him knowing. 

#### Nelson v. Murdock

 
 
Needing some help, Foggy Nelson called Claire Temple who arrived and treated all Murdock's injuries from Nobu Yoshioka's Kyoketsu-Shoge. When he regained consciousness, Murdock found Nelson still in his apartment, furious about having been lied to for all the years of their friendship. Nelson questioned if Murdock was the one responsible for the bombing and shooting police officers. Murdock told him that Fisk was responsible for everything. When Karen Page called Murdock's phone, Nelson turned the phone off. When Page called Nelson, he answered and told her that Murdock was in a car accident. He then demanded that Murdock tell him everything about his abilities and his history.
 the truth]]
Murdock told him how he was trained by Stick and how he had been taught to use his blindness as an advantage. Later, Nelson received a call from Brett Mahoney informing him that the junkie who killed Elena Cardenas had seemingly committed suicide by jumping off a roof. Murdock told Nelson that he had never killed anyone but wanted to after Cardenas' death, telling him how he had gone to the warehouse with the intention of killing Wilson Fisk. Murdock then told Nelson how his abilities actually developed as he was a child and how he tried not to become a fighter to make his father proud, but was left with no choice when he heard about a little girl being abused by her father, leading him to attack the father, putting him on the path to wearing the mask. During their continued arguments, Nelson compared Murdock to Fisk and told him he would not have kept this a secret from him before storming out. 

### Mental and Physical Recovery

#### Seeking Friendship and Guidance

 
 made each and every one of us with a purpose, didn't he? A reason for being." "I believe so, yes." "Then why did he put the Devil in me? Why do I feel it in my heart and my soul clawing to be let out if that's not all part of God's plan?|Matt Murdock and Paul Lantom|The Path of the Righteous}}
Karen Page arrived the next morning to check on Murdock, believing him to have been in a car accident. Murdock opened a bottle of beer for himself and skirted around the questions Page threw at him. Page started to suspect there was not a car accident and Murdock had endangered himself, making an enemy of Wilson Fisk after meeting Vanessa Marianna. She asked him if someone had broken in and beaten him up and Murdock said nothing. Page then told him that they had discovered that Fisk's mother was still alive and living under the name Marlene Vistain and Fisk had murdered his father as a young boy. Murdock reminded skeptical as he did not believe it would make a difference. Page left after giving Murdock a balloon.
 treats Murdock's wounds]]
When Murdock tried to move too much he pulled out his stitches, so he called Claire Temple, who returned to stitch up is wounds again. They spoke about how Murdock used meditation to help heal his wounds gained from Nobu Yoshioka's Kyoketsu-Shoge. Temple suggested that Murdock should invest in body armor to protect himself. He told her how he had sensed that Wilson Fisk wore a special light body armor. Temple then announced that she was planning on leaving the city for a few months. She told him that she believed he had been killed the night the Russian Mafia members were blown up and they knew that they could only be together if Murdock stopped wearing the mask, which he never would. She left after telling him she would always be there to patch him up and comparing him to a martyr.
 ]]
With little confidence, Murdock returned to the church to seek guidance from Paul Lantom. Murdock told him that he did not kill the man he had told him about, but that he had wanted to. He explained how Claire Temple had told him that if he continued what he was doing, he would end up bloody and alone. Lantom revealed that he knew that Murdock was indeed the man in the mask who was attacking criminals at night, although he did not know how he did it. Murdock asked why God had put the Devil within him and they discussed what the Devil actually represented. 

#### Requesting a Devil Suit

 
 
Murdock returned home and tried to meditate to calm his mind and recover his body, but he continued to suffer from the memories of his violent fights with Nobu Yoshioka and Wilson Fisk. Putting his suit back on, he tracked down and chased Turk Barrett and disarmed him. He threatened that if he went for any of his backup weapons, he would throw him off the roof. Murdock demanded to know where Fisk got his armored suits from. Barrett initially claimed to not know but quickly revealed that it was Melvin Potter when Murdock nearly threw him off the roof.
 ]]
Arriving at Melvin Potter's Workshop, Murdock explored the Workshop and noticed the designs and blueprints on the tables. Murdock was soon interrupted by the arrival of Melvin Potter, appeared as confused and frightened. Claiming that no one should be there, Potter then attacked Murdock with his brute strength and used various items around the workshop including chains and buzzsaws. Eventually, Murdock managed to overpower Potter with a strangle hold and spoke to him. Murdock quickly realized that Potter was a mentally unstable man who was being forced to work for Wilson Fisk under the threat that his caregiver Betsy Beatty would be killed. Murdock promised he would protect Potter and Beatty if he designed a suit for him. 
 ]]
Murdock arrived back at the Nelson and Murdock Law Office and found Foggy Nelson and Karen Page speaking to each other. After an awkward encounter with Nelson as he was leaving in which neither said a word, Murdock spoke to Page. Page told him that Nelson believed that he was responsible for the death of Elena Cardenas. Page tried to convince Murdock to repair his relationship with his friend. Murdock suspected that Page was hiding something. When he asked if something had happened, she told him that the world had fallen apart. 

#### Destroying a Heroin Factory

 ]]
 
Murdock met with Ben Urich outside his office and asked him for information regarding the heroin he had taken from the junkie who had killed Elena Cardenas. He told Urich that he believed since the Russians had been wiped out, Wilson Fisk would have likely taken over distribution of the heroin and he wanted to disrupt that trade to throw Fisk off balance. When Urich revealed he was working on something he believed could help, Murdock told him to keep his head down, using Anatoly Ranskahov's death as an example. Urich told him about the Chinese drug trade using blind people to deliver the heroin. Urich jokingly told Murdock he needed a new outfit and Murdock assured him he was working on it.
 
Waiting on the street where Ben Urich told him he had seen the blind men delivering the drugs, Murdock used his heightened hearing. He waited to hear the taps of a cane. Murdock followed a blind woman until she was picked up by a car. Murdock followed the car using the classical music it was playing to keep track of its location, running and using acrobatics to move across rooftops until it stopped outside a warehouse. Murdock listened and memorized the secret knock to gain entry and returned home. While stitching up his wounds again he called Karen Page to tell her he would not be coming into the office as he claimed he was working on something that could help the case.
 
Murdock used the secret knock to gain entry into the Chinese drug den. Once inside, he took out the guards. He noticed that the workers did not take any notice of him, and he realized they all been blinded. He was spotted by the woman in charge, Madame Gao, who ordered the workers to attack him, resulting in them grouping up on him while he said he was trying to help them. Murdock survived the attack, however, and confronted Gao. Gao revealed that all her workers had blinded themselves rather than her blinding them because they had faith in her. When Murdock tried to ask her about Wilson Fisk, she pushed him to the floor and sent him sliding a few feet.
 ]]
When he looked up, Murdock discovered that Gao was nowhere to be seen, much to his confusion. With the building burning down, Murdock ordered one of the guards to help the blind workers escape. Once the police had arrived, Murdock hid away from their observation and moved on from an alleyway. As Murdock was leaving he was confronted by Brett Mahoney who attempted to arrest him. Murdock knocked him down and told him that Christian Blake and Carl Hoffman were dirty cops before escaping.
 ]]
Murdock returned to his office and found Karen Page had locked the door. Page asked him if the company had become three people who never speak to each other. In response Murdock quoted Stick's speech that he should push the people he cared about away, and told her that although he tried to ignore that advice, he clearly had listened to those words and taken them to heart. Murdock told Page that he had a terrible night in which he seen the worst of humanity and learned that he couldn't do what he did alone anymore. As Murdock broke down crying, Page hugged him, telling him that he was not alone and never was. 

#### Personal Loss

 's funeral]]
 
After Ben Urich was found murdered in his home, Murdock and Karen Page attended his funeral, led by Father Paul Lantom. He listened as Page spoke to Ben's widow Doris Urich. Lantom approached Murdock to ask how he was holding up after the death of his friend. Murdock told him he felt that it was his fault that Urich had died, as he had not stopped Fisk. Back at the office, Page expressed her anger that Urich's former boss Mitchell Ellison had attended, as she believed he had been taking money from Wilson Fisk. They then discussed Foggy Nelson, who had failed to turn up to the funeral. Page told Murdock she was too afraid to return home in case Fisk ever found out she was with Urich when they spoke to his mother. Murdock swore to protect her.
 ]]
Murdock attempted to question Ben Urich's former boss Mitchell Ellison but failed. While training at Fogwell's Gym, Murdock was visited by Foggy Nelson. When Murdock asked how he had found him, Nelson told him he had always known about the gym but assumed it was something to do with Murdock's father so he had never questioned it. They spoke about Karen Page's reactions to Nelson not attending the funeral and their own relationship. Nelson revealed that he had been working with Marci Stahl, who had been copying files concerning Landman and Zack's dealings with Wilson Fisk and Leland Owlsley, Murdock told him to leave it alone as this is what killed Urich. Nelson desperately tried to convince him not to go after Fisk in the mask again, and to use the law instead. They agreed to work together again. 

#### Taking Down Wilson Fisk

 ]]
 
The pair met with Brett Mahoney who spoke about the warehouse fire at Madame Gao's Warehouse. He told them about his encounter with the masked man and how he was starting to believe that Wilson Fisk was the enemy, mentioning that there was not a single fingerprint at the scene of Ben Urich's death. During their conversation, Murdock overheard two officers talking about hunting down Carl Hoffman. They continued their research back at the Nelson and Murdock Law Office where Karen Page commented on how nice it was to be back together. They looked through the files given to them by Marci Stahl to try and find anything in the money movements that could lead them to where Leland Owlsley could be keeping Hoffman. Eventually, Page worked out that there was a property missing from the record and there was no profit from selling it, meaning it was being hidden from the records.
 ]]
Murdock went down to the building and found a team of corrupt police officers had killed Owlsley's guards and were preparing to shoot Hoffman. Murdock was able to save Hoffman and take out the corrupt officers. He sat opposite Hoffman and convinced him to give evidence against Fisk rather than sit and wait for someone to kill him. He told him to turn himself in to Brett Mahoney and use Nelson and Murdock as his lawyers. Murdock followed him to ensure he did as instructed and watched as Hoffman arrived at the 15th Precinct Police Station and gave himself up to Mahoney. Nelson and Murdock were hired as his lawyers and sat with him as he gave evidence against Fisk, exposing his entire operation and leading to the arrests of Turk Barrett, the corrupt cops, Senator Randolph Cherryh and Fisk himself.
 
With Fisk being taken to prison, Murdock celebrated with Foggy Nelson and Page. They raised their glasses in tribute to everyone Fisk had hurt, including Elena Cardenas and Urich. However, during their celebrations, a news report came on the television showing that the armored van carrying Fisk was being hijacked. They decided to get home quickly before they became endangered, but Murdock decided to leave them and get his own taxi. Nelson tried to convince him not to endanger himself, but Murdock convinced him that he knew what he was doing. He took a cab to Melvin Potter's Workshop where he collected his new suit. Standing on a rooftop, Murdock listened to the police sirens to try and locate Fisk. 

#### Duel of Hell's Kitchen

 ]]
 
Finding the van transporting Wilson Fisk, Murdock threw one of his batons at the window, causing the driver to crash. Murdock then confronted Fisk and told him that not everyone deserved a happy ending. While Murdock fought his guards, Fisk attempted to escape on foot. Upon knocking out the guard with his batons, Murdock cornered his enemy. Fisk roared at Daredevil, telling him that he was going to kill him; Murdock repeated what Fisk had told him after his fight with Nobu Yoshioka and confidently told him to take his shot at killing him.
 ]]
The pair engaged in a fierce and brutal fight, where Fisk's own brute strength and determination was equally matched with Murdock's speed and agility. Although Murdock's new armored suit offered extra protection, Fisk was still able to beat him nearly to death by throwing him at walls and hard onto the ground before beating him repeatedly with a metal pole, all the while ranting about how the city did not deserve heroes but deserved people like himself and his father and should be burned to the ground and rebuilt in his image as the people in it were scum who deserved to drown and die.
 ]]
Determined to bring Fisk down once and for all, Murdock disarmed Fisk and used his own batons to beat him into submission, telling him that New York City was his home and he would not allow Fisk to destroy it. Barely able to stand due to the beating he had received, Fisk mocked Murdock's attempts to make a difference to the city all on his own while wearing what he had called a silly little costume. However, Murdock used these insults to fuel his rage and launched himself through the air and, with a final hard punch to the face, Daredevil knocked out Fisk and left him on the ground.
 arrest Fisk]]
However, before Murdock could leave the area without being caught, Brett Mahoney then arrived on the scene and even threatened him, confused by seeing a man in a red suit in the middle of a dark alleyway. Murdock, however, remained perfectly calm despite being threatened and explained the situation to Mahoney, who called the rest of the New York City Police Department to inform them that the fugitive had been found. While Mahoney arrested Fisk, he asked what he should now call Daredevil, who escaped by climbing up various fire escapes to the rooftop. 

### Daredevil of Hell's Kitchen

#### Protecting New York

 discuss Daredevil]]
 
The next morning, Karen Page read the New York Bulletin article regarding Wilson Fisk's arrest at the hands of Daredevil and joked about the name and the costume. Foggy Nelson finished attaching a sign to the outside of the Nelson and Murdock offices. They discussed how long it could take for Fisk to go to trial. Murdock then spoke to Page alone, commenting that there was still something in her voice that told him she was still frightened; she told him that putting Fisk behind bars would not bring back Ben Urich or Elena Cardenas or erase the trauma they had been through. He told her all they could do was move forward.
 ]]
That same night, Murdock put on his new suit again, overlooking the city. Hearing the screams of a women in danger, Daredevil readied his batons and ran off the roof to save them. During the next few months, Daredevil continued fighting crime, tracking down and ambushed Turk Barrett who had now escaped Seagate Penitentiary. Daredevil also helped Zuly Almeida, a client of Nelson and Murdock, whose husband attempted to kill her. Daredevil brutally assaulted him, which resulted in Almeida sustaining two broken arms and waking up in Metro-General Hospital with a restraining ordered safety pinned to his chest by Murdock himself, ending the abuse. 

#### Hospitalizing Turk Barrett

 ]]
 
When Turk Barrett was released from jail, he attempted to collect money from one of his former clients, but was ambushed by Daredevil who started to beat up his clients and had been looking all over the city for Barrett. Barrett ran away from the conflict but was stopped by Daredevil, who beat him severely and warned him to give up his criminal lifestyle. Barrett was then sent to the hospital once the police were able to catch him for his latest crimes. 

#### Guardian Devil

 
 
 
Daredevil chased down four robbers in New York City. He subdued the first one who was about to kill a police officer. The second one, he cornered and brutally beat in the kitchen of a restaurant; the third one, who was interrupted by a man who nearly drove him over and whose car he was about to steal, he knocked out and told the driver to call 9-1-1. The final one took a teenage girl hostage and held himself up in a church.
 
Daredevil soon tracked the criminal down and cornered him where he threw his billy club in such a way that he managed to knock out all of the lights in the room, causing the criminal to panic. Daredevil then revealed himself in the darkness of the church and, after a brief stand off, he managed to subdue the robber and secure the girl's safety as officers arrived, while Daredevil took his position on the roof of the church where he could not be discovered. As he watched from above, more officers arrived to the scene, Daredevil smiled happily, having now fully immersed himself in his vigilante lifestyle. 

#### Work-Life Balance

 discuss life]]
 
Months later, during an unusually hot morning, Murdock and Foggy Nelson walked towards the Nelson and Murdock Law Office together with Nelson telling him about his date the previous night. As the two joked, Nelson noticed blood coming from the back of Murdock's head from his latest outing as Daredevil. While Murdock insisted they didn't have to talk about it, Nelson insisted, and told Murdock that he was having a hard time making excuses for his injuries, and pointed out that he would be arrested, or at the very least, disbarred from practicing law, only for Murdock to claim that Nelson would just continue to run the firm without him if it came to it.
 
Murdock then proceeded to tell him the story of Zuly Almeida and insisted that if he took a night off as Daredevil people would get hurt. Nelson told Murdock that he didn't want to lose him and Murdock assured him he wouldn't. Arriving at the office, the two met up with Karen Page, who proceeded to lay out the cases they had today, including Jacinto, Marino and Maxwell before telling them in private that while they had more clients then ever, they were broke. Murdock insisted they would get by somehow, noting he did not know how, and they moved on to focus on their current clients. 

### Punisher Hunt

#### A New Criminal Client

 ]]
 
Later, Murdock, Foggy Nelson and Karen Page went to Josie's Bar where they shot pool. When Nelson went to get some more drinks, Page helped Murdock try to shoot. He then heard her heart racing. Murdock picked up another rapid heartbeat as well, mentioning it to Nelson along with the fact that the man had his finger on the trigger of a gun. Murdock went to confront the man named Grotto, a low member of the Kitchen Irish, who was actually looking for both him and Nelson.
 's horrific story]]
Taking a seat at their table with Nelson, Murdock, and Page, Grotto described a massacre in which every Irish member was killed by some kind of army. After listening to his heart beat, Murdock knew he was telling the truth and warned that he would become a target for going to them for help. Grotto then claimed that he only wanted to be placed in witness protection. Grotto then told them he would give the police anything if he could get out of New York City, and he told them all he wanted was a second chance to do right. He then collapsed, from a wound he had sustained during the gunfire.
 
Murdock and Nelson went to the scene of the massacre which was now being investigated by the New York City Police Department. Meeting up with Brett Mahoney, who refused to tell them anything, Murdock used his superhuman hearing to listen in on the cops who revealed that the gangsters were wearing body armor. Mahoney relented and told the lawyers that this wasn't the first huge gang hit, and that the police thought a paramilitary outfit of some sort was behind the attacks. Mahoney then warned them to keep their witness away. Murdock decided to investigate further, as Daredevil. 

#### Confronting Turk Barrett

 ]]
 
Daredevil disrupted the deal going on between Turk Barrett involving firearms. After defeating the thugs and Barrett, Daredevil interrogated Barrett, asking about who had supplied the weapons that had caused the Massacre at the Burren Club. When Daredevil literally twisted his arm, Barrett told Daredevil that the Mexican Cartel might be behind the attack before he was then knocked out by Daredevil and left for the police to arrive and arrest him once again.
 ]]
Daredevil then went to the location given to him by Barrett where the Mexican Cartel were hiding out, only to discover most of them dead and hung on meat hooks. As he sensed over the scene, Daredevil discovered that only one person was still being alive, clinging to life despite being injured horrifically and left to die on the hook. Daredevil carefully took the man off the meat hook and then asked what had happened. As the tried to stay alive while slowly bleeding to death from his injuries, the gang member eventually revealed that it was not a whole army targeting the gangs, but only one man. 

#### Meeting Punisher

 ]]
 
Daredevil located the culprit who was about to kill Grotto with a sniper rifle outside Metro-General Hospital. The two engaged in a brutal fight where Daredevil found himself surprised by the man's brutal savagery and strength. Daredevil eventually seemed to finally gain the upper hand, only for the shooter to take out a pistol and shoot Daredevil in the head, knocking him off the building. 
 's help]]
The gunshot knocked Murdock unconscious, but did not penetrate his helmet, which was damaged. Murdock remained unconscious until the following morning, when Foggy Nelson found him. Nelson managed to get back to Murdock's home without being noticed. Nelson once again expressed anger and exasperation at Murdock's vigilantism, but Murdock made it clear that he did not trust the New York City Police Department to handle the shooter. Although he was suffering from a concussion and clearly still recovering from the gunshot wound, Murdock wanted to join Nelson and Karen Page at the 15th Precinct Police Station to help get a witness protection agreement for Grotto. However, Nelson insisted that Murdock stay home and recover, and asked him to trust him to do his job. 

#### Discussing Punisher

 
 
Some time later, Murdock attempted to get a glass of water from his sink when his hearing became distorted. The sound of an aspirin hitting the tabletop disturbed him so much that he dropped his glass of water. To his shock, he realized that the glass made no sound when it shattered on the floor. He panicked, realizing that he now could no longer hear. After some time, he meditated, and his hearing returned in time for him to hear someone knocking at the door.
 ]]
He opened the door to let in Karen Page, who was still shaky after fleeing the shooter the night before. Seeing the broken glass on the floor, she assumed that Murdock had been drinking. When she questioned him about his injuries, he jokingly reminded her that he was blind. She sarcastically replied that she was not an idiot. Backing off, she told him that she would be there for him whenever he felt comfortable telling her what is going on.
 
She then changed the subject, filling him in about Grotto's case, including the fact that DA Samantha Reyes personally met them at the precinct. She also told him that the shooter was being called the "Punisher" and mused if the people of the city had helped create him by cheering on Daredevil. Murdock quickly pointed out that Daredevil had never killed anyone, but she replied that they simply never heard about him killing anyone. Before leaving, she told Murdock that she and Nelson cared about him and that he was worth keeping around.
 to fix the suit]]
As soon as Page left, Murdock brought the damaged helmet to Melvin Potter in his workshop and asked him if he could repair it. Potter was not optimistic, saying that it would be best if he could construct an entire new helmet, as the damage was severe. Murdock convinced him to repair the damaged helmet as best he could so he could go after Punisher as soon as possible, and then create a new one later.
 ]]
Wearing a black hoodie, Murdock clandestinely inspected the Burren Club where the Kitchen Irish had been massacred. Outside the club, he found a dog's chain and picked up the scent of the dog, who had been injured. He was able to track the dog's movements until he came across a stretch of pavement that was being washed, eliminating the scent. Standing on the street, he picked up the sound of a police radio, and traced the sound back to a small apartment, where a chained dog began barking at him. Murdock calmed the dog with a handful of nearby dog food and listened to the police radio. He overheard plans to draw out Punisher using Grotto as bait. 

#### Round Two with Punisher

 ]]
Murdock returned to Melvin Potter's Workshop and donned his newly repaired helmet and suit. He went to the location where the New York City Police Department had set their trap for Punisher. However, Punisher discovered the trap and attempted to kill several Dogs of Hell members before aiming at Grotto in order to kill him. Fortunately, Daredevil found him on the nearby roof and attacked him, and two brawled while the police shot at Punisher. Following a lengthy fight between the two combatants, they crashed through a skylight into the building below. Daredevil's hearing began to fail him again and he became disoriented, and Punisher used this to his advantage to knock Daredevil unconscious. 

#### Rooftop Discussion

 ]]
 
Daredevil awoke from a dream in which a nun was tending to him while he was a boy. Upon awakening, he discovered that he was chained to a chimney on a rooftop. As he struggled against the chains and tried to free himself, Punisher wished him a good morning. When Daredevil asked him why he didn't remove his mask, he responded that he didn't care about his identity. Daredevil deduced that the man was a soldier and tried to get him to reveal information about himself, asking if he was a Catholic and if he was from New York City but the man warned him not to dig.
 
Daredevil heard someone approaching the roof from inside the building, and asked Punisher not to hurt him. Punisher warned Daredevil that if he called attention to himself again, the person approaching the roof was going to get hurt. Daredevil overheard Punisher speaking to an older man, introducing himself as Frank. The old man and Frank bonded over being veterans in the United States Armed Forces, with Frank revealing he had served as a marine in both Iraq and Afghanistan, while the older man served in Vietnam years earlier.
 
During the conversation, Daredevil strained against his chains, attracting the veteran's attention, but Punisher simply told the old man the noise was a rat and pressed a gun to the door leading inside the building in a way that the old man couldn't see it. Satisfied that Frank was just on the roof to have a smoke, the old man left and returned to his apartment, sharing one last joke with Frank as he walked away. Alone with the man who called himself Frank, Daredevil accused him of threatening an innocent man, but Punisher replied that the gun was for Daredevil's benefit.
 argue about justice]]
The two began to argue about their differing methods of justice. Daredevil argued that all human beings had a spark of goodness in them and that there was always hope they would find redemption and change their ways to become better people, while Punisher argued that the criminals Daredevil put away always got out of prison again, and continued to hurt innocents, therefore, Daredevil's methods were worthless. Punisher claimed that the only way to stop the cycle was to kill them. Daredevil then told Punisher that he would never stop coming after him, because he was insane and needed to be stopped, so Punisher knocked Daredevil unconscious by hitting him with his gun. 

#### A Fatal Test

 
 
When Daredevil regained consciousness, he was horrified to find that Punisher had duct-taped a gun to his hand. Frank informed him that there was only one round in the chamber and that he was wearing body armor, so the only way to stop him was to shoot him in the head. The Punisher then dragged Grotto into Daredevil's view, explaining that he was going to kill him, and the only way Daredevil could stop him was to shoot the Punisher.
 ]]
Punisher coerced Grotto into telling Daredevil that he had performed hits for the Kitchen Irish while he was working for Nesbitt, while being beaten, Grotto finally admitted to killing an old woman who had witnessed one of the hits. Despite hearing all this, Daredevil refused to shoot Grotto. Punisher said that he would do it himself, and the only way for Daredevil to stop that from happening would be for him to shoot Punisher. Murdock, however, found another way - he used the one bullet in the gun to shoot through his chains and free himself.
 ]]
Now free, Daredevil charged forward and attacked Punisher, but was unable to stop him from fatally shooting Grotto. As Daredevil tried to comfort the dying Grotto, Punisher took aim at motorcycles parked outside the Dogs of Hell headquarters. With Grotto now dead having bled out from his fatal wound, Daredevil launched himself at Punisher, but he was still able to take the shot, causing a large explosion, alerting Jimmy the Bear and his men. Daredevil fought and eventually subdued Punisher, taking him inside the building and placing him in a freight elevator to make their escape quickly. 

#### Fighting the Dogs of Hell

 's men]]
 
Just as Daredevil was about to leave the building in the elevator with the still unconscious Punisher, bikers from the Dogs of Hell arrived led by their leader Jimmy the Bear, angry at the destruction of their bikes. The old man from the rooftop emerged from his apartment, and Daredevil, knowing the man was in danger, left Frank inside the elevator. He then grabbed Jimmy, threatening him with the empty gun, and told Jerry to go back inside his apartment. Once the man was safe, Daredevil pulled the trigger and chuckled before beginning the fight.
 ]]
This began a long, protracted fight between Daredevil and the Dogs of Hell, in which Murdock used his superior fighting skills along with the chain he was still trailing to defeat them, smashing out the ceiling lights to force the bikers to fight in the darkness where he had the clear advantage over them as Daredevil did not require light to see. Going down the stairway, Daredevil fought seemingly endless waves of the bikers but kept using his chain as a long-range weapon while he fought hand to hand while always ensuring that he never fatally wounded anybody during his brutal takedowns of the bikers.
 
Despite the seemingly endless wave of Dogs of Hell fighters attacking him with whatever weapons they had in their hands, Daredevil eventually made it down the stairs having knocked out almost all of his attackers. As he entered the ground floor lobby, Daredevil discovered only three bikers remained, keeping him from freedom. As he was so exhausted, Daredevil was unable to dodge one punch to the head which dazed him and allowed his enemies to gang up and beat him repeatedly in the chest and head, but he quickly recovered and knocked out all but one of the bikers remaining.
 ]]
In the end, one final biker remained, the largest of the group, who used his strength to throw Daredevil across the long hallway and attempted to strange him to death and even came close to breaking the exhausted Daredevil's back, but he was able to free himself and knocked him out by slamming his head repeatedly against the hard concrete floor before performing a flip and landing one final hard kick against his skull. However, once he returned to the freight elevator, he noticed that Frank had escaped into New York City during the chaos of the fight without Daredevil noticing. 

#### Grotto's Funeral

 's funeral]]
 
Back at his apartment, Murdock put on his suit and got ready for the funeral for Grotto. He was visited by Karen Page who helped him with his tie and asked if he was better after taking days off sick, while he had actually been out as Daredevil. They flirted with each other and Page revealed that she had a brother who she had never mentioned before. Once he was ready, Murdock and Page left for the funeral.
 's quiet funeral]]
Meeting Foggy Nelson, the group went to Clinton Church and listened as Father Paul Lantom explained that was Grotto was a deeply flawed person who had made many mistakes throughout his life while working for the Kitchen Irish. Lantom also revealed, however, that Grotto had spent his every Sunday coming to the church and praying while on his own before handing over all of his money, and once a Rolex watch, into the donation plate in the hopes of finding redemption for his many sins, despite knowing redemption would never come for him, with Lantom pointing out that there was nobody to mourn his death, but the three of them who sat alone.
 ]]
As they left, Murdock noted that Grotto had not, in fact, died alone, with Nelson adding that he was surrounded by the Dogs of Hell. Murdock let everybody leave while he spoke alone with Lantom, complimenting him on his service. Murdock insisted that Grotto's death was not his fault, explaining about Punisher's violent actions and asked for forgiveness for not saving him, asking why he felt such guilt for failing Grotto. Lantom explained, however, that guilt could be a good thing as it could bring him to action, noting that while he likely could not have done more, the guilt meant his work was not finished.
 ]]
Back at Nelson and Murdock Law Office, Murdock and Nelson listened as Page explained that she had found evidence that Frank Castle had been shot in the head during the Massacre at Central Park and that Samantha Reyes had this evidence that Blake Tower had given to Page, explaining that they should try and find Castle. As Nelson left to answer the phone, Page then asked Murdock if she was insane while Murdock was distracted considering this new information before Murdock asked her if she really cared about what happened to Castle.
 sharing a moment]]
Murdock teased Page, claiming that she was insane before laughing and noting that he loved her compassion which he told her was a great quality to have. However, Murdock was pulled away by Nelson who reminded him that Nelson and Murdock still had clients they had to deal with, noting DiPesta was being sued by his landlord for damaging an elevator and advised that they take the case. When they called out to Page, they discovered she had left and taken the Punisher files, Murdock left to look for her while Nelson told him to find Castle first. 

#### Hunting Punisher

 for his helmet]]
 
Donning his Daredevil's Suit, Murdock traveled to Melvin Potter's Workshop and requested his new helmet, which Melvin Potter noted was basically indestructible and would easily withstand a bullet to the head. Potter noted that he had been getting requests from criminals for new body armor ever since Punisher had begun his massacres, which he had refused to provide as he was only protecting Betsy Beatty, Daredevil and himself from now onwards.
 's attacks]]
Daredevil traveled to the Burren Club where he caught the attention of Brett Mahoney who was gathering evidence from the massacre. Daredevil questioned what had happened there, but Mahoney refused to help, noting that although he had helped them catch Wilson Fisk they were not allies, although he eventually admitted that it involved the Kitchen Irish. Mahoney then accused Daredevil of causing them problems with the police's respect in New York City before getting a call about a shootout in Central Park, so Daredevil quietly left the club to investigate on his own.
 ]]
Daredevil traveled to Central Park where he found several members of the Kitchen Irish had been shot and killed during a violent clash, with the exception of Rory, who was now attempting to cruel away despite several bullet wounds in his gut. Rory attempted to shoot Daredevil, however, he missed his shot and had his arm twisted the wrong way as Daredevil demanded to know what had happened. As he was in agony and slowly bleeding out due to his wounds, Rory finally revealed that Finn Cooley had taken found and kidnapped Punisher and, upon hearing police cars coming his way, eventually gave up where Cooley and his men had taken Punisher. 

#### Saving Punisher

 ]]
 
Traveling to the Kitchen Irish's hideout, Daredevil ambushed several of the thugs sent by Finn Cooley. Using the darkness and his own speed to his advantage, Daredevil knocked out one guard and used the moment of confusion to take out the second. When more thugs were called to investigate, Daredevil attacked and easily subdued them all using his body armor and billy club before continuing his search.
 from killing]]
Daredevil soon found Frank Castle engaged in a shoot out with the Irish having killed Cooley and survived being tortured by Cooley's Irish mobsters. Daredevil saved Castle and promised that the Irish would pay for everything that they had done, although he insisted that they not kill anyone there. As they fought more thugs, Daredevil constantly had to ensure that Castle did not use any weapons to kill the Irish, knocking a gun and a hammer out of his hands, with Castle insulting him for this. Once all the thugs were defeated and knocked unconscious, Daredevil then helped the exhausted Castle to his feet and they escaped into New York City from the hideout.
 's past]]
They soon made it to Saint Michael's Cemetery, however, Castle found himself unable to keep walking due to his many injuries and sat down by a grave. Although Castle insisted he was dying, Daredevil stayed by his side and listened as Castle explained his time with the United States Marine Corps and his incredible joy at finally being reunited with his beloved family upon returning to New York City. However, Castle also explained the emotional agony he had felt on the day that his family were brutally murdered at the hands of criminals during a gunfight.
 to take the credit for the capture of Frank Castle]]
Eventually, members of the New York City Police Department arrived to arrest Castle, with Brett Mahoney aiming his gun at Daredevil while his partner put Castle in handcuffs. As he was being arrested, Daredevil recommended to Mahoney that he take the credit for Castle's capture in order to give the people of New York faith in the police department again. Mahoney reluctantly accepted this idea as his best move and let Daredevil go free, with Daredevil later watching from a safe distance as Castle was loaded into an ambulance to recover from his wounds in hospital. 

#### Night with Karen Page

 and Page for a drink]]
 
Murdock joined Foggy Nelson and Karen Page for a drink at Josie's Bar as they watched a news report on the capture of Punisher, celebrating the fact that Officer Brett Mahoney was getting all of the credit for the arrest. Page noted that now Castle was in custody, Samantha Reyes would find it easy to use him for her gain. Nelson went to get more drinks to distract them while Murdock and Page discussed her brother.
 share a kiss]]
As they left Josie's Bar, Nelson teased Murdock that if he continued with Page then he might end up actually being happy which he joked would be terrible for someone Catholic like him. While Nelson left to get a taxi, Murdock offered to walk Page home in the rain. Once the rain died down, Murdock stopped and used his finger to gently wipe away a single drop of water from Page's arm. The pair then kissed each other before Murdock offered to take Page to dinner the next day. She eagerly agreed before Murdock wished her good night and let her catch a taxi while he then walked home. 

### Elektra's Return

#### The Surprise Visit

 ]]
 
Once Murdock stepped into his apartment, he got himself a drink and smiled thinking about his kiss with Karen Page. However, just as he relaxed, Murdock heard a noise that alerted him that somebody else was there. Drawing a knife, Murdock realized the other person was Elektra, who greeted him with an amused smile. 
 's offering]]
Murdock scolded her, asking her what she was doing in his apartment. At first, she stated that she missed him. She apologized for leaving him all those years ago, but told him she was in New York to be at a meeting. She revealed that her late father invested a lot of money in the Roxxon Corporation and requested that Murdock represent her for an upcoming meeting with the board of directors. Murdock mocked her and refused the offer, even when she went as far as to pay him. He then ordered her to leave. 

#### Karen Page's Updates

 's actions]]
 
The next day, Murdock went to the Nelson and Murdock Law Office and asked if there was anything to eat. Foggy Nelson offered him a piece of peach pie, calling it their last payment. Murdock then apologized, blaming himself for the firm doing poorly and being too distracted as Daredevil. Nelson stated that he was just glad they were safe while also relieved that Frank Castle was behind bars. When Karen Page arrived, she began to talk about Castle. She showed them newspaper articles that did not report on Castle's military service nor the tragic death of his family. Murdock asked how she knew all this, and she confessed that she broke into Castle's house, much to Murdock and Nelson's disapproval.
 ]]
After Nelson suggested forgetting about Castle and finding actual clients, Page apologized to Murdock about not letting go of the Punisher case and Murdock reassured her that he just wanted her safe. Page began to talk about the night after Josie's Bar, but Murdock joked that he didn't remember anything happening. He confirmed that they were still on for a dinner date, later. Then, Nelson came out of his office, informing them that they received a huge deposit in their account. Murdock knew it was from Elektra, but stated that it was from a potential client, then he left. 

#### Spying on Elektra

 ]]
 
Murdock went to the Yakatomi Building as Elektra entered and met with the Roxxon Corporation's board of directors. He snuck up on the rooftops and began to listen. However, he was unaware that Elektra saw him during her meeting.
 's meeting]]
While Elektra talked to the board, she pulled out a pen, placing it on the table. Murdock, however, heard a low sound emanating from it. Suddenly, the phones began to ring and a few members of Roxxon claimed that the servers were hacked. As the members began to reschedule their meeting with Elektra, Murdock left. 

#### Dinner with Karen Page

 having their date]]
 
Later, Murdock joined Karen Page at a restaurant for their date. He was trying to decide what kind of wine to get and tried to ask how her day went. When Page had to excuse herself from the table, the waiter approached him stating that he had a phone call. When he picked up, he found out it was Elektra, revealing that she knew he was at the Yakatomi Building. She told him that he was fired; she then hung up.
 to another restaurant]]
Later, Page returned, wondering why Murdock had left their table, but he claimed that he did not like the high-end, upscale restaurant. They went to Panna II Garden Indian Restaurant instead, toasting to "the cheap stuff." They started talking about what they loved about New York City. Then, Murdock and Page walked to her home, where they began to kiss. She invited him inside, but he declined the offer, telling her that he wanted to keep the night perfect. They said goodnight and Murdock left. 

#### Ambush at Elektra's Penthouse

 's true intentions]]
 
Later that evening, Murdock went to Elektra's Penthouse, as he had begun questioning her about why she took him to Roscoe Sweeney's house when they were in college. She stated that she saw inside of him "glorious darkness" and she wanted to see if he could kill Sweeney.
 manipulating him]]
Then, Murdock heard someone's footsteps, Elektra stated that it was the Yakuza, as she went into another room and changed clothes. Murdock realized that she tricked him into fighting with her, telling her that she didn't know him. In response, she opened a bag that contained his Daredevil's Suit inside. Elektra then pulled up her cowl, getting ready to fight. 
 by surprise]]
Murdock suited up, then hid. Later, the assassins broke in, looking for Elektra. Later, Daredevil and Elektra revealed themselves and then began to fight. After a long battle, they easily knocked out all the supposed Yakuza soldiers. As Elektra caught her breath, she pulled down her cowl and asked if Murdock was hungry, but Murdock was still furious. 

#### Deal with Elektra

 ]]
 
The next morning, Murdock and Elektra began to eat at a diner. He demanded to know why the Yakuza was after her and she told him that she hacked into Asano Robotics's servers, and they had connections to the Yakuza organization. She stated that even though he took down Wilson Fisk, the Yakuza merely hid and bid their time. He then asked her how she knew he was Daredevil. She answered that she recognized his ass on the news, even with the costume on.

Elektra asked Murdock to help her figure out the connection between the Yakuza and the Roxxon. He reluctantly agreed to help, on the condition that she won't kill anyone and that she leave New York as soon as they were finished. He then told Elektra that he was dating someone else, and had no desire to rekindle their past relationship. 

#### Wanting to Save Punisher

 's sentence]]
 
Murdock arrived at Nelson and Murdock Law Office, in time to hear Castle's public defender, Christopher Roth, explain to Foggy Nelson and Karen Page that Samantha Reyes was trying to extradite Frank Castle into Delaware, a state which had the death sentence. After that, Roth left the office, leaving Page and Murdock trying to convince Nelson to take on Castle as their client.
 to set up a plea]]
Furiously, Page informed both Nelson and Murdock how frustrated she was with how Reyes was handling Castle's case. Murdock told Nelson that they didn't have to defend his actions, but merely negotiate a plea bargain that took extradition off the table. Nelson refused. When Page left so that Nelson and Murdock could talk in private, Nelson made it known that he was surprised that Murdock would want to help Castle after he held him hostage. Murdock told Nelson that he felt his actions were not worth the death penalty. Reluctantly, Nelson finally agreed, telling Page to pack her things as the three left to meet Castle in the hospital. 

#### Meeting with Frank Castle

 ]]
 
When they entered Metro-General Hospital, they found the entire place filled with security guards and police. Having shown their IDs, they were allowed to pass through. Brett Mahoney, now appointed as Detective Sergeant for his actions, informed them that Castle already got a lawyer and was against them from speaking to Frank Castle, knowing it would be against Samantha Reyes' wishes. Murdock, Karen Page, and Foggy Nelson convinced him that they had a right to interview a prospective client, and he sent them into Castle's room. When they entered, Mahoney warned them to not cross the tape that surrounded his bed.
 ]]
Murdock was the first to confront Castle, introducing himself, but Castle stated that he knew who they were, and criticized how they defended scumbags that deserved to die. Murdock talked to Castle about possibly negotiating a plea, but Castle rejected his offer. However, Page, ignoring Mahoney's rule about the tape, stormed towards Castle and showed him the photo of his wife and two children, telling him that if he got the death penalty, then he would be unable to find answers to his family's murder.
 ]]
However, Reyes then arrived in Castle's room, angry that Nelson and Murdock were talking to Castle without Christopher Roth, accusing them of breaching of ethics. However, Murdock chimed in, stating that they had a right to find potential clients. Reyes found it odd, noting that they represented Grotto before, causing a conflict of interest. Then, Mahoney came out of Castle's room and delivered the news that that Castle had asked to have Nelson and Murdock represent him in court.
 's driver]]
The three entered an empty room and began to strategize the case, feeling the need to use all their files on Castle, until a chauffeur arrived, asking for Murdock. Murdock knew that the chauffeur had been sent by Elektra, but told Nelson and Page that he had scheduled a meeting with a wealthy client and, with that, he left. 

#### Stealing the Roxxon Ledger

 ]]
 
Murdock entered a car with Elektra, who then presented him with a new tuxedo, much to his annoyance. As he put on the tuxedo, she revealed that they were heading to a gala being held by the Roxxon Corporation in order to steal a key card from Stan Gibson and enter a secret room that should contain a ledger that describes the Yakuza's activities with Roxxon.
 enter the gala]]
As they entered the gala, Murdock took note that Elektra was turning many heads and raising many heartbeats. They were met by a mysterious man named Hirochi, who greeted them both. They finally located Gibson, but when Elektra was about to steal the key, Murdock stopped her, noting that Gibson was being watched.
 ]]
Instead, Murdock spilled red wine on Gibson's white suit, which caused Gibson to be angry. Gibson calmed down when he saw that Murdock was blind. He walked to the men's room to clean up. Murdock followed him, attacking both Gibson and his bodyguards, knocking them out and stealing his key card. He went back to Elektra and they both went to the thirteenth floor.
 find the Roxxon ledger]]
Murdock and Elektra went past security and got to the secure room. Murdock used his enhanced senses to crack a safe, however, the ledger was not inside. Then, Murdock used his senses to locate a secret room and Elektra found a way to open it. Finally, they found the ledger. However, the building went on lockdown. As they left, they fought the security that got in their way.
 examine the ledger]]
Once they hit a room on the 11th floor, they pretended to be a couple looking for a private room. The security guards saw that Murdock was blind and allowed both of them to leave. Murdock and Elektra got back into the car and began to read the ledger. However, Elektra became confused, stating that part of the ledger was written in code, making it impossible to read. Murdock, being glad that it was over, left the vehicle and went to his apartment. 

#### Preparing to Defend Punisher

 
 
As Murdock settled in, Foggy Nelson stopped by, annoyed that he missed his calls. He informed Murdock that Frank Castle had pleaded not guilty, with Samantha Reyes requesting a fast track for the trial. Murdock thought it best if they filed for an extension, however, Nelson told him that Castle agreed to the fast-tracked trial. With that, Nelson told Murdock to clear his calendar, because the trial of The People v. Frank Castle would begin the following week. 
 case]]
Back at their Law Office, Murdock strategized with Karen Page and Nelson about Castle's defense. Nelson believed the best way to go about the case was to a plea that Castle had post-traumatic stress disorder, causing him to commit the crimes. Murdock stated that as long as Castle agreed, he would make an opening statement based on PTSD. Page decided to visit Castle to see if he would agree.
 ]]
Later, in his office, Murdock started practicing his opening statement, but then he received a call from Elektra. She informed Murdock that she found out who decrypted the ledger of the Yakuza, but he informed her that he was too busy with the trial on Castle. Then, Nelson came into his office and asked Murdock to look up witnesses from the Dogs of Hell. Murdock informed him that he would as soon as he was done with his call. He then reluctantly agreed to help Elektra. 

#### Reconnecting with Elektra

 ]]
 
Daredevil and Elektra entered the apartment of Philip Cabroni, who was dealing with two Korean prostitutes. After they left his room, Daredevil and Elektra revealed themselves, shocking Cabroni. They demanded that he decipher the codes in the ledger, which, after a few threats, he agreed to. He revealed that the ledger detailed a list of shipments coming into Hell's Kitchen. One, in particular, was arriving later in the evening. Daredevil threatened Cabroni, telling him to end his dealings with the Yakuza, and Elektra mocked his decorator, then knocked him out before they left.
 open the railcar door]]
Daredevil and Elektra arrived at a railroad station, where they found the railcar that Cabroni mentioned in the ledger. They opened the door and dirt rushed out of it, confusing the both of them. Then, the Yakuza attacked them both.
 
Daredevil and Elektra fought together in a warehouse, but they eventually split up. Daredevil and Elektra both managed to fight off the Yakuza easily and eventually, they found each other. Once they finished of the Yakuza, Daredevil saw that Elektra was injured and took her back to his apartment to get stitched. 

#### Catching up with Elektra

 's wound]]
 
They went to Murdock's apartment, where he stitched up Elektra's neck. Elektra, looking at Murdock's scars, asked him people said about them, considering that he has seen a bunch of women. He joked that the women would be too busy enjoying themselves.
 compares their scars]]
As they began to show each other their scars, he pointed out one given to him by a man named Nobu, using his Kyoketsu-Shoge. Elektra pointed out that his name was Nobu Yoshioka, and that she knew of him by reputation. Murdock asked Elektra what happened to her the night after they went to Roscoe Sweeney's house, she stated that she went as far away from him as possible, stating that he deserved better. Murdock then told Elektra to sleep on the couch, and spent part of the night watching her sleep before going to sleep himself. 

#### Testing Friendships

 
 
The next morning, Murdock started to panic, noting that he overslept and had to be at Frank Castle's case. As he was getting dressed, Elektra told him that she would figure out why the rail car was full of dirt, wishing him good luck in court as he left. Murdock finally arrived at the court, just in time to hear the middle of Foggy Nelson's opening statement.
 and Nelson]]
Murdock caught up with Nelson and Karen Page in the hallway and apologized to both of them. They were both frustrated that he was so late, but he complimented Nelson on his opening statement. To make it up to them both, he agreed to question Gregory Tepper about the autopsy the next day. Nelson reluctantly agreed to this. Murdock requested that Page get him caught up on everything he's missed in court, later that night. 

#### Talk with Karen Page

 go over the files]]
 
Later that evening, Murdock and Karen Page went to his apartment, looking through the autopsy files from Gregory Tepper, trying to figure out a way to get Tepper to confess that the reports were false. While they did that, they began to talk about the first time they met, talking about Page being saved by Daredevil that one night. However, she began to connect Daredevil's vigilante activity to the actions of Frank Castle's. However, Page confessed that she felt that Castle was doing the right thing, causing silence between the both of them. Murdock decided to end the session and promised Page a real date, as she left.
 was eavesdropping]]
Murdock went upstairs, where Elektra was and scolded her for eavesdropping on their conversation. He told her how much Page and his job meant to him. She explained that she complied with a list of construction sites in Hell's Kitchen that could account for the mysterious rail car full of dirt. Murdock remembered one of the sites as the one which Nobu Yoshioka had blueprints for. He assumed that Yoshioka used that site for Wilson Fisk's personal use, but now realized that Yoshioka might have an alternative motive. However, Murdock told Elektra that he had to be in court for the Castle trial the following morning, then she left. 

#### Gregory Tepper's Testimony

 's work]]
 
Later, during the court case, Gregory Tepper was questioned by Murdock about the autopsies of the victims that Frank Castle killed. During cross-examination, Murdock asked him how many autopsies he has filled out in the past. However, Tepper then asked if he could make a statement about something he did in the past. Judge Cynthia Batzer asked the jury and spectators to clear the room.
 threatened Tepper]]
Once all was clear, Tepper confessed that the autopsy of Castle's family and the John Doe were false. He revealed that he was coerced into falsifying the reports. He then revealed that the previous night, a woman with a foreign accent and a mask threatened to kill him if he did not tell them the truth, which shocked Murdock. Samantha Reyes had then accused Nelson and Murdock of threatening the witness. With that, the judge ordered Tepper's testimony stricken from the record.
 about Elektra]]
Murdock followed Foggy Nelson into the bathroom as Nelson was angry, filled with disbelief that Reyes would threaten a witness like that. However, Murdock confessed that it was not Reyes, and that Elektra was the culprit. Nelson did not understand, as he only remembered Elektra as a debutante, while Murdock told Nelson that she came back to Hell's Kitchen and had become dangerous.
 ]]
Murdock, then, confessed that he and Elektra were now spying on the Yakuza and trying to figure out why they were back, confessing that she was the wealthy client that he was talking about and that she was the one who deposited money into their account. Before he could tell Nelson more about what was going on, Nelson lashed out angrily at Murdock, pointing out that he has lied to him again. He angrily claimed that he would no longer trust him, telling Murdock to tell Karen Page about Elektra, and left.
 
Page, curious about the yelling, asked Nelson what was going on. He ignored her and then she asked Murdock, but he told her that he has to leave. However, he promised to talk to her the next day, although she muttered under her breath that she doubted it. 
 

#### Stick Returns

 ]]
 
Daredevil met Elektra outside of the Midland Circle construction site and let her know that she ruined Frank Castle's case by threatening Gregory Tepper. She responded that she was following his own rules: you don't get what you want by day, you take it by force at night. Furious, he warned her to stay out of his normal life and, stating that Matt Murdock's life was boring, she agreed. Daredevil fought guards at the entry site, then she arrived after the battle, sarcastically remarking that he didn't want her help.
 find the Hand's pit]]
They went inside the construction site, where he confirmed that they were alone. However, he was shocked to find a large hole. He took her flashlight and dropped it down the hole. After a long pause, she asked if it had hit the bottom. When he responded that it hadn't, she asked him to tell her when it did. 
 ]]
After another long pause, Daredevil heard the flashlight hit the bottom and told this to Elektra. They were then ambushed by mysterious ninjas. Daredevil tried to find them but discovered that he couldn't because they were somehow hiding their heartbeats. Elektra warned Daredevil that they were using swords, and he found he could track the sounds of their weapons.
 are saved by Stick]]
The two of them fought off the ninjas and during the battle, Elektra was badly injured. Before one of the ninjas could attack, they were saved by Stick, who finished off the others, telling Murdock that they should get out. They got in a car driven by a man named Quinn. They were followed and attacked by the ninjas, with Stick using a crossbow to take them out. Murdock claimed that he could sense Elektra dying. Stick ordered Quinn to drive them to Murdock's apartment. 

#### Learning of the Hand

 to heal Elektra]]
 
When they finally arrived, Stick asked for a few items to use to heal Elektra. Murdock does as he is instructed, gathering the items and praying for Elektra to heal, as Stick combines the items. Finally, Murdock begins to hear a heartbeat from Elektra, relieved by her speedy recovery.
 knows Elektra]]
Later, in the living room, Murdock and Stick discussed Elektra as she is recovering in the bedroom. Stick casually mentioned that he's known her to recover from worse things. This surprised Murdock, and he demanded that Stick explain how he knew her.
 from Stick]]
Stick talked about an organization of ninja warriors called the Hand, whom he described as an ancient evil. He explained that they were plotting their evil work in New York City. Then, he described their enemy organization called the Chaste, of which Stick and Elektra were both members. Murdock, annoyed, was ashamed that Stick would bring up a ridiculous fairy tale. Stick told him that this was all really happening, warning that the Hand would bring chaos to New York.
 's recovery]]
Later, Murdock checked on Elektra while she recovered in bed, and she confirmed everything that Stick had said. When he asked her if the two of them meeting was planned by Stick, she admitted it was. Although she said regardless of her orders, she really did fall in love with Murdock. Murdock admitted that he feared to lose her while she was dying, and suggested she leave Stick and fight the Hand with him instead.
 are seen by Page]]
Then, Murdock realized that someone came into his apartment, and Stick came in and told him that he had a visitor. Karen Page came in and was shocked to see Elektra in Murdock's bed. Murdock told Page that he could explain everything, but she became distant from him as she told Murdock that Foggy Nelson needed his help for the Castle case. Although Murdock suggested they go somewhere to talk, she left quickly, with Stick sardonically calling after her that it was nice to meet her. 

#### Discussing Heroes

 discuss the case]]
 
Murdock went to the courtroom as Karen Page had requested. He tried speaking to Page, but she ignored him. He spoke to Foggy Nelson, who, still angry and demanded that Murdock get Frank Castle to retell his story. Castle came to the stand and Murdock heard a guard whisper to him, asking him to think about what he wanted. Murdock tried to get Castle to describe the day his family was killed, but Castle did not respond. Murdock asked Cynthia Batzer for permission to treat Castle as hostile.
 
Murdock claimed that Castle was just the kind of man his city needed in the wake of Wilson Fisk and then went to the jury and told them about heroes and how New York City needed more men and woman like Castle who were willing to find justice themselves; describing how Castle took it too far by murdering the crooks, noting that Samantha Reyes was trying to stop heroes from taking action. He argued that Castle needed help and not punishment. Despite that, Castle asked to speak and told everyone that he knew what he did and was glad, embracing his title as the Punisher as he was dragged away.

Outside the courtroom, Murdock claimed that someone influenced Castle, but both Page and Nelson ignored Murdock. Nelson angrily exclaimed that he was glad that they lost the case, and Page told Murdock that while she agreed with Murdock about heroes, he was not one of them. Page then told him that she was done with him and ended their relationship before storming off. 

#### Choosing Elektra

 ]]
 
Murdock returned to his apartment, noticing that Stick had left, but was relieved to find Elektra in bed and that she had decided to fight the Hand by his side. She guessed correctly that he lost the case and Karen Page, but he told Elektra that he was glad he did not lose her, making his decision to spend his life with her. As Murdock left to give Elektra some rest, he was attacked by a Hand ninja.
 ninja]]
The fight was long and Murdock was, later, hit by a poisoned arrow. Murdock was able to subdue and confront the ninja. He took off his hood and realized that he was young, hearing his heartbeat. Elektra came behind the ninja and slit his throat with a kitchen knife, much to Murdock's horror. He shuddered as Elektra told him that this was who she was, asking if he still wanted her. Murdock began to shake from the poison, and Elektra embraced him as she prepares to save him. 

#### Change of Heart

 
 
Later, Elektra tended to Murdock's wounds, having removed the poisoned arrow from his shoulder, and ensured that his life was no longer in danger. When Murdock had finally recovered, he looked around and found no evidence of the fight from the previous night. He asked Elektra what she did to the boy's corpse, to which Elektra responded that she took care of everything, implying that she disposed of the body, much to Murdock's shock.
 to leave]]
Murdock, still in shock from Elektra's kill, noted that her adrenaline spiked when she killed him, just like at Roscoe Sweeney's house those many years ago. She told Murdock about the first person she killed when she was twelve, not for self-defense, but through pure enjoyment, which had horrified Murdock. He told Elektra that there was a time when he was in love with her, but he would have no more of her killings, as this went against his beliefs. Murdock had then demanded that she leave his apartment, stating that he would fight against the Hand by himself. With that, Elektra reluctantly left.
 that he is done]]
Later that day, Foggy Nelson had arrived at the apartment to visit Murdock, taking note of his injuries. Nelson had informed Murdock that he had thought it best that Nelson and Murdock shut down, to which Murdock reluctantly agreed. However, Nelson begged Murdock to quit being a hero, as clearly his life as Daredevil was putting him at risk of being killed, but Murdock told Nelson that he would no longer apologize for who he was and that he would resume the mantle of Daredevil, no matter what Nelson thought. With that, Nelson left him, leaving Murdock with less allies than ever. 

### Fighting the Hand

#### The Return of Nobu

 tells Daredevil about the Farm]]
 
Later in the Yakatomi Building parking lot, Daredevil located Stan Gibson, taking out his bodyguards. Having knocked out and subdued his guards with ease, Daredevil revealed to Gibson that he found out that the Hand had infiltrated the Roxxon Corporation and told Gibson to tell him what they are doing. Gibson revealed that the Hand was keeping his son, Daniel Gibson, hostage. Gibson revealed that the Hand had a heavily guarded facility that they called The Farm. Daredevil then demanded that the clearly terrified Gibson take him to that place.
 show him the Farm]]
Gibson took Daredevil to the Farm, leaving him outside. Daredevil knocked out the guards and found Hirochi. Daredevil could hear the blood dripping in another room and he demanded Hirochi take him to the source.
 in horror]]
When Hirochi showed him the inner workings of the farm, Daredevil was horrified to find young kids caged like animals and being drained of their blood through a tube. The tubes went into a huge stone Sarcophagus. Daredevil went to free the children and Hirochi escaped. Gibson entered the Farm and was horrified to see his son in one of the cages. Then, one of the ninjas ambushed Daredevil, letting him know that the draining wasn't complete, as he took out an all too familiar Kyoketsu-Shoge.
 is alive]]
Daredevil fought the ninja as long as he could, but the ninja became victorious. The ninja pushed the sarcophagus into an elevator; then, Daredevil figured out who the ninja was: Nobu Yoshioka. Daredevil was shocked, stating that he should be dead, however, Yoshioka took off his mask and replied that there was no such thing. 
 an update]]
Daredevil went outside of the building and called Brett Mahoney. As soon as he arrived, he told him about the caged children and that they needed medical attention, warning him about the Hand trying to get them. Daredevil told him to take them to Metro-General Hospital and to put them under the care of Claire Temple.
 about the Hand]]
As soon as Mahoney took the kids to Metro General, Murdock met Claire Temple in the hallway. He warned her that their blood was drained by a ninja named Nobu Yoshioka, who, somehow, came back to life after he burned to death. He warns her that she may be in trouble from the Hand ninjas, but promised to protect her and the hospital from them. Suddenly, using his enhanced hearing, Murdock listened to a police radio warning that Frank Castle escaped from prison. 

#### Punisher Escapes

 ]]
 
Following Frank Castle's escape from Rikers Island, Murdock was summoned to meet Samantha Reyes along with Karen Page and Foggy Nelson. Upon arriving at the courthouse, Murdock was soon greeted by Page who commented on the amount of security now present there, as Murdock apologized for getting Nelson and Murdock involved with the case in the first place. While Murdock attempted to make small talk with Page, she was called away for security reasons, leaving just standing Murdock alone outside.
 's escape]]
They were taken through security and then entered Reyes' office. While they walked in they discussed Castle's escape from Rikers with Murdock asking Page if he had said anything at all to her, but Page insisted he had not mentioned any escape plan. Nelson took note that Castle escaped Cell Block D. Murdock remembered this as the same cell block in which Wilson Fisk was incarcerated, noting that he liked to track of anyone who may want them dead. He then soberly told Page and Nelson that this was not a coincidence, telling them that he believed Fisk orchestrated Castle's escape.
 ' office]]
As they sat down in Reyes' office, she and Blake Tower requested their help in locating Castle. Murdock told her that they would only help if she told them what happened between her and Castle. Reyes confessed that the Massacre at Central Park that killed Castle's family was a sting operation that went south. The District Attorney's office had been trying to convict a mysterious drug dealer known as the Blacksmith. Reyes and Tower explained that while they were tracking him they learned of a deal involving the Blacksmith, Dogs of Hell, Kitchen Irish and Mexican Cartel and decided to act.
 's threats]]
Reyes then revealed that she chose to not clear the park of civilians to make it look less suspicious and risk the Blacksmith getting away, but it resulted in multiple civilian deaths, due to a shootout that broke out between the gangs, with victims including Castle's own wife and children. Then, Reyes showed them an X-ray of a skull that she took from her daughter's backpack, worried Castle had now chosen her own daughter as his next victim. She informed them that although her daughter was safe in a secret location in upstate New York, and that Punisher was to be found before he could harm anyone else.
 from gunshots]]
While Reyes begged them to tell her if Castle ever contacted them, Murdock heard a gun being cocked from across the street, in an instant Murdock then demanded that everyone got down, covering Page with his own body as an unknown assassin began shooting at them. The bullets destroyed everything in sight, wounding Nelson in the arm. Once the bullets stopped hitting the room, everyone slowly raised to their feet. Although almost everyone had survived, they discovered that Reyes had been hit multiple times in the back and was killed, much to Tower's utter shock and horror.
 ]]
As a result, the New York City Police Department and the FBI all then swarmed the courthouse, desperately searching for Punisher who they blamed for the murder. Murdock, Nelson, Page and Tower left the courthouse; as Nelson was being treated by an Emergency Medical Technician, Murdock let him know that he would go after Punisher and get to the bottom of all this, although Nelson was still skeptical that he would ever be able to find him. Murdock, however, insisted he knew where to start looking, before Nelson noted he may know where to start, but not how to ever stop. 

#### Kingpin's Threat

 ]]
 
Seeking answer directly from his chief suspect, Murdock visited Rikers Island, where he was greeted by Benjamin Donovan who gave him a contract written in out Braille for Murdock's convenience, stating the terms of the meeting between him and Wilson Fisk. Donovan warned that if Murdock came into physical contact with Fisk or discussed their meeting with the media then he would be sued, Murdock signed the contract and was brought to Fisk.
 in prison]]
Fisk noted how he and Murdock had met once before at the Scene Contempo Gallery before they went to court, but Murdock ignored this and commented on the shooting at the New York State Supreme Court Building which had killed Samantha Reyes. Murdock accused Fisk of setting up Frank Castle's escape, but Fisk told him that it never happened while Murdock argued that Fisk's seeming lack of motive kept the suspicion away from him and allowed him to unleash Castle upon New York City to cause chaos. Fisk decided that enough was enough and called over Donovan to end their meeting.
 ]]
Instead of back down, Murdock threatened to make sure that Fisk's beloved fiance, Vanessa Marianna, could never come back to New York, for acting as his accomplice, ensuring Fisk would never see her again, apart from the odd trip to Morocco but he would never be able to live with her again. Upon hearing that, the now enraged Fisk released himself from his chains attacked Murdock, slamming him into the table. Defending himself, Murdock managed to punch Fisk's mouth, but the still furious Fisk kept ahold of his suit and remembered how Murdock was the son of a boxer.
 meeting horrified]]
Murdock realized that Fisk had taken control of Rikers Island and had indeed orchestrated Castle's escape, which Fisk then confessed to but noted that nobody would back up Murdock's story. Fisk threatened to get revenge on Nelson and Murdock by destroying the lives and loved ones of Murdock and Foggy Nelson, as soon as he got out. Fisk threw Murdock back onto his seat and promised that his wrath would be worse than anything the Punisher was going to do to the city. Murdock was escorted out of the prison by Donovan, horrified and shaken from what just transpired. 

#### Ninja Attack at Metro-General

 the Hand's plans]]
 
Murdock went to the rooftop of Metro-General Hospital. Claire Temple met up with him, wondering why he wasn't visiting Foggy Nelson. Murdock said that he sensed Nelson and that he was fine, blaming himself for getting Nelson shot in the arm. Temple updated Murdock about the patients, noting that a mysterious organic substance was coursing through their bloodstream, which led her to believe that the Hand were incubating a substance that was then drained.
 ]]
Murdock, forlorn, told Temple that he felt everything he did got undone. He told her he was quitting the law and his friends. He let her know that he felt that they were a distraction and that he would put them in harm's way. Temple tried to make him change his mind, but he ignored her and still refused to visit Nelson. After she left, Hand ninjas began to scale the side of the hospital. Murdock heard this and put on his helmet. 
 in Metro-General]]
Just after the ninjas killed Louisa Delgado, Daredevil arrived, saving Temple and fighting the ninjas. The battle was long, as the ninjas tried to reclaim their victims. Temple tried her best to fight, but one of the ninjas knocked her out of a window. Daredevil jumped out and saved her, using one of the ropes from the Hand had used to scale the building. The Hand, unfortunately, escaped with Daniel Gibson and the others.
 to Temple]] 
Afterwards, Murdock got changed into his street clothes and explained to Temple about the Hand and what they wanted. Temple was against Murdock going after the Hand alone, saying this might be his downfall, but he he stated that he had it handled. Then, Brett Mahoney called Murdock, explaining that Karen Page was attacked and was at the 15th Precinct Police Station. 

#### Figuring Out Blacksmith

 ]]
 
Murdock, outside the 15th Precinct Police Station, waited for Karen Page. When she saw him, she revealed that Frank Castle saved her when someone shot up her apartment. She revealed that she may be Blacksmith's target, because she was researching the Massacre at Central Park. Murdock wanted to follow her when she was about to leave, but she told him, coldly, that she was not his to protect.
 ]]
Later in the evening, Daredevil confronted Blake Tower, who was trying to leave town. Daredevil demanded that Tower tell him all that he knows about Blacksmith, but Tower revealed that he had very little information, except a code name. Tower then suggested that the one person who might know more would be Blacksmith's rival: a drug lord in Chinatown.
 
Daredevil infiltrated a dry cleaner that was serving as the drug lord's lair. He fought and knocked out the guards before going to the basement. There he found Madame Gao, who was busy painting. Daredevil warner her to call off her men or he would break their legs, and she she stated that once he was satisfied that they were alone, they would talk.
 ]]
Daredevil demanded information about the Blacksmith. She told him that his identity and very nature was a mystery. However, she knew that he sold pure heroin that was brought in by ship.
 from killing]]
Daredevil arrived at the pier and stopped Castle from killing a man whom Castle thought was the Blacksmith. After that, the two began to fight. Castle was furious at Daredevil, blaming him for ruining his moment of peace. However, Daredevil warned him that killing the wrong man would mean his revenge would be false and that, on some level, he knew that.
 kill]]
Castle once again stated that Daredevil's way of justice did not help end crime and killing Blacksmith was what needed to happen. Daredevil admitted that his way was not working and suggested that just this once, they do things Castle's way. Castle then stated that once someone kills another person, they can never go back from what they did. Daredevil warned Castle about men he heard approaching. He told Castle they needed to get off the ship, and in response, Castle pushed Daredevil into the water. The men shot at the boat, which exploded from the gunpowder held below decks. Daredevil, later that evening, went back to dry land, hearing both Brett Mahoney and Karen Page arrives on the scene with the police.
 plans to kill Stick]]
Murdock went back into his apartment and heard a car screeching out of control. He walked outside, noticing a car crashed into the side of the street. He found out that the driver was one of Stick's soldiers of the Chaste, who informed Murdock that Elektra planned to kill Stick. 

#### The New Black Sky

 from killing Stick]]
 
Daredevil found Stick's hiding place, and before the fight between him and Elektra continued, Daredevil steps in and breaks it up. Then, Hand ninjas ambush the three, who fight Daredevil and Elektra, vanish and take Stick with them. Daredevil is confused, not being able to locate a trail, but still plans on saving Stick. Elektra chimed in that she will kill Stick, and threatens to kill him if he stands in her way. With that, she kissed him and left.
 discuss Nelson and Murdock]]
Later, Murdock entered his office, reading a Braille subway map. Foggy Nelson was inside, as well, packing his things from his office. Murdock told Nelson that he thinks the Hand are using subway tunnels to secretly move throughout Hell's Kitchen without being detected. Nelson had an idea, referring to his bootlegging grandfather during Prohibition, that it may be abandoned railway tunnels, encouraging Murdock to look through them. Nelson and Murdock pause in there office for the last time, feeling a sense of sadness and relief that Nelson and Murdock was over.
 ninjas]]
Later, Daredevil went inside the abandoned railway tunnel and, no sooner as he enters, is ambushed by Hand ninjas. He is easily able to fight them off, listening to the metal of their swords weapons, but the ninjas caught on and sheathed their weapons, while attacking him with their fists. Daredevil became helpless, Not being able to defend himself from the ninjas.
 's instructions]]
Then, suddenly, Daredevil heard the soft whispering voice of Stick, being tortured by Hirochi, instructing him to listen to the ninjas' exhalations. Daredevil does as instructed and, as a result, is able to knock out all of them. After that, he continued down the tunnel for Stick.
 from the Hand]]
Daredevil finally finds him and is attacked by Hand ninjas, who were guarding Hirochi. Hirochi thought he was safe, but Stick bites Hirochi on the neck. Daredevil freed him, then Stick told him how proud he is. However, Elektra arrived, wanting to kill Stick. Then, Nobu Yoshioka appeared, demanding that Stick tell them why they are all here.
 is the Black Sky]]
Daredevil demanded that Yoshioka take him instead of Stick and Elektra, but Yoshioka states that he just wants Elektra, revealing that she is the Black Sky, the weapon of the Hand. Stick is aggravated that she found out about the truth, but Daredevil denies it as true, pleading with Elektra she must be the one to define herself. Yoshioka and the Hand knelt down and offers his sword to her; she accepts and demands Daredevil to leave.
 one final chance]] 
She continued to recall how she fought her violence nature her entire life, but now as the Black Sky, she can embrace it. Then, heartbroken, Daredevil tells her that it would mean killing him, for he is the Hand's enemy. She puts her sword to his neck, but she hesitates. He, then, grabbed Elektra's sword and held it up to her neck, giving her one last chance to fight off the Hand with him and Stick. He releases her and they both fight them off.
 ]]
In the middle of the battle, Elektra stops fighting and grabs Stick so they can both escape. He states he still wants her dead, but he won't for Murdock's sake, revealing that Murdock was trying to save Elektra from a line that she'd never come back from. Daredevil, then, fought with Yoshioka for a while and then escapes with Elektra and Stick while the ninjas watched.
 

#### Amends with Elektra

 's face]]
 
 
Back at his apartment, Murdock tied Stick to a chair, stating that he and Elektra will be the only ones fighting the Hand, stating that he still does not have a plan. Before Stick could make a snarky comment, Murdock taped his mouth. Then, he met Elektra on the rooftops. The both of them decided the best course of action was to expose Nobu Yoshioka as a fraud to his followers. 
 

#### Melvin Potter's Upgrades

 ]]
 
Then, Daredevil took Elektra to Melvin Potter, where he fitted her in special body armor. He, then, gave Daredevil a new billy club made of a special design. Daredevil told Potter that he could not thank him enough, but Potter simply stated that he is glad that there are some people in Hell's Kitchen who was looking out for them. 

#### Brett Mahoney's Message

 ]]
 
Daredevil and Elektra then went back to his apartment, as they began to look for the whereabouts of Nobu Yoshioka. Then, Foggy Nelson called him from the 15th Precinct Police Station. He told him that Brett Mahoney had been forced to give men information about Daredevil. He hung up and left.
 ]]
Murdock met up with Mahoney near the fire escape at the precinct, as he was quick to joke that, at this point, he can only trust the vigilante. He informed him that he was forced to give mysterious people the files on Daredevil's actions or they would kill his mother. Mahoney told him that the files had the names of all the people he has saved, Murdock put the pieces together and left for Karen Page's Apartment, only to find that Karen Page was not there and that there sword marks on the wall. 

#### Tracking Down the Hand

 ]]
 
 
Daredevil was on the rooftop, trying hard to hear the location of the Hand's hostages, but becomes incredibly frustrated. Daredevil informed Elektra that he unable to listen through all the other noises going on. Elektra suggested blocking all other noises and to listen for the hostages. Daredevil does just that and, finally, hears the bus that is transporting them.
 discuss their plan]]
Daredevil and Elektra arrive at the Hand's hideout. They are about to enter, but Elektra thought it was best to stay behind, thinking it a trap and stating that it would be best that the Hand did not retrieve the Black Sky, especially if it meant complete destruction to thousands, compared to a few. With that, Daredevil descends to the hideout.
 
Before the Hand could cut off Turk Barrett's ankle, Daredevil crashed inside and knocked them out. He frees all the hostages and asks Karen Page if she is all right, which she confirms. He touches her face and the two share a moment before he tells her to leave. 

#### Attack on the Hand

 ]]
 
 
However, more Hand ninjas appeared and began to fight him. As one was about to attack, Elektra stabbed the ninja in the back, claiming she got bored waiting for him. They found out that the only way out was on the roof, as they head upstairs. They stopped near a door, where Daredevil claimed that he could sense an army of Hand ninjas; they both took a moment, acknowledging that this might be their last fight.
 ]]
Elektra states that she is ready to meet her fate, but Daredevil removed his Helmet, stating if they get out alive, he wants to leave New York City with her. She states that he belongs in New York, but he responds by saying she made him feel more alive than the city.
 dying in his arms]]
Daredevil and Elektra finally make it to the top and battle Hand ninjas. A lot of the Ninjas were easily defeated, but Nobu Yoshioka was much more a superior fighter, able to knock Daredevil's helmet off. Yoshioka was about to stab Daredevil with his Kyoketsu-Shoge, but Elektra attacked him, which caused Yoshioka to stab her by accident with her own Twin Sai. She gave her final farewell to Daredevil and died in his arms, claiming that this was not the end.
 ]]
Yoshioka was enraged that he lost the Black Sky and he ordered his men to finish him off. Daredevil, filled with anger, fights then, but finds out that the ninjas were being shot down. He sensed Punisher, who was sniping the Ninjas down for him.
 off the roof]]
Daredevil walked away, letting Punisher finish off the rest of the ninjas, and battled Yoshioka. After a bit of a struggle, he used his new billy club to fling him off the roof and win the battle. Punisher looked at Daredevil and said that he would see him around, and then left. Now alone, Daredevil walked over to Elektra's lifeless body, took her hand, and mourned her demise. 

### Truth Revealed

#### Confession to Karen Page

 's grave with Stick]]
 
With the threat of the Hand seemingly dealt with for the time being, Murdock and Stick visited Elektra's grave. Filled with too much grief, Murdock could not find any words to say, so Stick wondered if Murdock thought it worth it to love her, to which Murdock said that even though Stick opposed it, it was. Stick smiled and called Murdock the toughest person he knew, then they left, with Stick returning to the Chaste while Murdock remained in New York City to continue his own fight.
 he is Daredevil]]
Making his mind up about what was best for the people around him, Murdock asked Karen Page to meet him at the old Nelson and Murdock Law Office, which she reluctantly agreed to. As Murdock walked down the streets of New York and entered the building, he found Page waiting there for him. Murdock nervously told her that he had something to show her, though Page told him that she did not want whatever it was. Murdock, however, insisted and eventually pulled out his Daredevil helmet. Page looked at the new revelation in shock and Murdock revealed that he was Daredevil. 
 ]]
After reeling from the revelation, Murdock was met by Page again in his apartment, after she went for a walk. Murdock invited Page in his guest room, and she asked if he could see her. Murdock told Page that he could not exactly see Page, and that it was different and maybe better. As Page further questioned Murdock's abilities, he explained that could sense people without seeing them, such as knowing where Page visited the Indian restaurant they went to due to the curry he smelled off her clothes and the taste of a drink on her breath, noting that telling her this made Page uncomfortable as he could hear her heartbeat.
 for his lies]]
After Murdock explained his abilities to Page and proved it by stating her recent activities simply through his senses, he told Page that she had every right to be angry and should have told her from the very start of their relationship. While Page still felt angry about Murdock's activities and recent behavior, she admitted that she couldn't stay angry at someone who saved her. Understanding Page's statement, Murdock agreed her justification on her anger for breaking the trust of a friend who saved her life twice. Murdock then offered Page a drink and she nodded, which he could sense, much to her surprise.
 
Getting Page a drink from his kitchen and offering her upfront, Murdock was told that his act of being blind was fake, agreeing with the statement and apologizing afterwards. Page then asked for where the suit was, and he pointed at his closet. While Page looked at Murdock's suit, he expressed that he would leave Daredevil behind for good and that he did not need Daredevil in his life anymore. As Page was in disbelief in Murdock's statement, he placed Page's hand on to his chest where his heart was beating and told that he should not need Daredevil to be a part of him anymore, but Page was not sure Daredevil was the problem. 

#### Return to Normality

 inside court]]
 
Mourning Elektra and blaming himself for her death, Murdock quit being Daredevil and decided to refocus his efforts of helping people through the justice system as a lawyer. In 2016, months after his conflict against the Hand, Murdock worked on a case for Aaron James, a boy paralyzed by the chemicals used in Berkowitz's companies' subway. Murdock won the case and gained the family an eleven million-dollar settlement.
 ' predicament]]
Before going to meet the press, Murdock had a talk with James about his well-being. As he accepted that he was fine, Murdock told James how much the money would help his parents, telling him that it would only get harder once he realized everybody was going to tell him how to feel. Wanting to have his life back, Murdock told James that the people around him would not help him regain what he already lost. Telling him the possibility of walking, Murdock told James that having the strength from his recovery was a hundred times more powerful than just putting up a smile.
 's invite to lunch]]
After advising to get James' life back together, Murdock was then greeted by Karen Page, who had come to congratulate him on the case. Once Murdock was happily accepting the gratitude, Murdock was stunned by the sight to see her again. Being told it was okay to feel proud, Murdock took it as pride in his work and was later asked if he could be joined for lunch for a statement. Stuttering his words, Murdock gladly accepted Page's offer to interview him as well as conversant each other during their feast. Upon accepting his invitation, Murdock went over to the press for an interview. 

#### Catch Up with Karen Page

 
 
Getting lunch, Murdock told Karen Page that he great found he found her story about the school board scandal, and agreed that her job as a reporter at the New York Bulletin was doing well for her. Murdock then told Page about what he had been doing as a pro bono lawyer was making him feel happy. After the waitress poured coffee for them and left the table, Page asked Murdock if he regretted telling her about his Daredevil Suit, to which he declined and stated that he could not lie to her anymore. Page then asked Murdock if he missed being Daredevil which he declined, telling her it was a chapter in his life that was closed.
 's statement]]
Although he claimed that he did not regret being Daredevil, Murdock expressed how he was unable to figure things out with his friends, despite Page's assurance of their relationship could not affect her and Foggy Nelson. Page then told Murdock that despite the complications, Daredevil might have made New York City safer due the amount of New York City Police Department's inference in crime; while Murdock agreed, he claimed that the city was better off without him. Murdock was then offered about his statement for the New York Bulletin about the court case of Aaron James, accepting it afterwards. 

#### Confession with Paul Lantom

 ]]
 
Murdock went for a confession at Clinton Church and told Paul Lantom that he lied to someone he cared about. Murdock admitted that he missed the other life that he left behind. Lantom reasoned that Murdock's lie could lead him to the truth and that it might be a sign of Murdock's indecision. Lantom further asked if he felt guilty due to his longing for his other life or because of Elektra's death. Murdock admitted that he greatly missed her, despite knowing that the things she brought out of him were wrong. Lantom told Murdock that he must move on and find peace within him. 

### Excavation of Midland Circle

#### Tremor and Chaos

 
 
Murdock returned home after a day of work. He went to grab a beer before being shocked by an earthquake shook the entire city. After bracing himself in the apartment and waiting for it to stop, Murdock heard all of the suffering that the earthquake had caused in the city. Unable to ignore people who needed help, Murdock left his apartment. 
 
On the rooftop, Murdock listened intently to the city. Murdock heard a group of youths who stole from a stole only to get discovered by a violent store owner. Murdock quickly sprang into action, scaling buildings until he reached the scene where the store owner started shooting at them.
 
Murdock saved the youth by creating a distraction that allowed youths to escape the violent store owner. After defeating the store owner, one of his assistant arrived with a gun. Murdock tried to diffuse the situation and pleaded for them to not chase the youth. When the assistant responded by firing his weapon at him, Murdock was forced to violently disarm the man. Realizing that he relapsed to his old habits, Murdock quickly left the scene.
 in his closet]]
Returning home, Murdock tried to wash himself of the blood and patch the bruises that he received during the fight. After venting his anger and frustration about his act of vigilantism, Murdock opened the case that held his Daredevil's Suit. He contemplated before he received a call from Foggy Nelson. 

#### Receiving Cases from Foggy Nelson

 ]]
 
Murdock met to have a drink with his old friend at Josie's Bar, as they talked about their work. Foggy Nelson congratulated Murdock on winning the case and asked if he intended to remain pro bono, to which Murdock replied that he intended, too. Nelson was doing well working at Hogarth, Chao & Benowitz, and having a relationship with Marci Stahl. Their conversation soon turned to Murdock's vigilantism because Nelson had noticed the bruises on his hands. Nelson offered files of cases that could keep Murdock busy from doing his vigilantism again, as Murdock accepted the files and thanked his friend. 

#### Representing Jessica Jones

 ]]
 
Murdock was contacted by Foggy Nelson to be an attorney for Jessica Jones. During the evening, Murdock arrived in time to stop Misty Knight's interrogation and introduced himself as Jones' attorney. Once Knight left the room, Murdock set his bag down and took off his jacket before he had to have a talk with Jones. Asked by Jones if she was a public defender, Murdock told her that a friend of Jeri Hogarth had recommended her in case of any trouble.
 ]]
Not knowing that Hogarth did diversity hires, Murdock told Jones that he was independent and does not work for Hogarth's firm. Jones told Murdock that she would not be paying him, but Murdock would then express that she did not have to. As Jones assumed that Hogarth had already paid him, Murdock accepted that idea and told her that he was a Catholic and had a soft spot for hopeless causes. Murdock asked Jones about how long she was a private investigator, but she rejected to expose that information, proving to be uncooperative. Murdock began telling Jones if she was always rude towards the people trying to help her, irritating Jones afterwards.
 ]]
Being told that she would find her own lawyer, Murdock claims that she doesn't need one since after talking to Knight about the mess she has been in the way of, the New York City Police Department doesn't have anything to hold her on, further explaining that Jones was part of an active crime scene, resulting into follow up questions. Murdock then started bringing himself closer and wanted to tell her about Kilgrave, abruptly being told that it has nothing to do with the incident. Murdock then proceeded to ask if there is anything out of the ordinary, but Jones dismisses his question.
 ' tracks]]
As the conversion became apparent, Murdock told Jones that she was free to leave the station. Once Jones got out of the room, Murdock heard her phone with Malcolm about what happened last night. Murdock began following Jones to learn about what she knew but during his following in the streets, only for her to realize she was being followed and begin tracking Murdock instead. Realizing that he was being followed, Murdock headed to an alley and promptly made his escape, leaping up the side of the building and climbing up the fire escape that allowed him up onto the roof, though not without Jones managing to get pictures of him scaling the building. 

#### Escape from Midland Circle

 to leave the building]]
 
Eventually, Murdock managed to resume following Jones when she was entering Midland Circle. Grabbing her arm and pulling her to the side, Murdock told her to leave the building, being told afterwards that she'll harm him for touching her, Murdock told Jones that he has been in Midland Circle before and is in serious danger, knowing that her case had led to her into something really sinister. Having her in disbelief, Murdock told her talk somewhere else, but Jones refused and revealed that she had witnessed and photographed him escaping from the alley, leading Murdock to smash her camera.
 into battle]]
Before they could continue, Murdock heard a gunshot fired off from the penthouse, being asked about how he could hear that by Jones. Answering her question, Murdock told Jones that he can hear danger from far away and took her scarf as a makeshift mask. Going inside at the back of the building, Murdock avoided the obstacles in the stairways with workers doing their jobs, going as fast as he could upstairs. Finally reaching up on the floor she's going through, Murdock reached into the location with Jones using an elevator. As they walk together, Murdock was told that he looked like an asshole which he responded that it was her scarf.
 ]]
Soon after, Luke Cage smashed through a nearby wall and was followed closely behind by Danny Rand. As both cage and Jones introduced each other and Rand advised them to escape the building, Murdock warned them that someone was coming, revealing to be Elektra. Once she arrived, Jones advised them to leave only for more Hand fighters appear from behind and began attacking them. Daredevil began fighting against one of the Hand fighters and aggressively subdued him. Not long after, Daredevil began fighting against Elektra after she snuck up behind him.
 from Elektra]]
During the fight, Daredevil kicked Elektra and dodged her attacks but was punched into another room with glass windows, where he continued his fight. As the fight began, Elektra used her sword against Daredevil but was fast enough to dodge the many swings she could try to kill him. As they damaged the many objects surrounding the room, Daredevil began to avoid her attacks for so long that her sword had revealed to be in two. Dodging the many attempts to slice up him up, Daredevil was eventually subdued and was forced to the floor by his adversary.
 ]]
While lying on the ground, Daredevil then heard Elektra's breathing patterns and to his shock, he had realized that it was Elektra who was fighting him. Looking confused of this revelation before she could kill him, Daredevil was rescued by Rand who came to check up on anyone else in the building and smashed through Elektra's swords, blowing her out away with the Iron Fist. With her out of the way, Daredevil was given a hand by Rand, getting up on his feet after a fight. Moving on from the scene, Daredevil ran through the hallway with Rand and retreated back onto an elevator in order to escape Midland Circle building. 

#### Defenders Unite

 ]]
 
During the nighttime, Murdock escaped Midland Circle and entered into the Royal Dragon Chinese Restaurant with the others. After Danny Rand convinced the owner to let them stay, in return for paying for six months of rent and ordering food, Murdock listened on how the Hand had gained influence on certain groups around the world. As Luke Cage and Jessica Jones began to ask questions, Murdock explained that they were up to something more secret and eviler. Once Rand expressed that they needed to find him because of his Chi, Murdock asked him again about it, to which the group began to dismiss his identity.
 ]]
Once Cage asked Rand about Elektra was, Rand expressed that he had no idea but had fought her in Cambodia and Jones told him that person went after her client. Having raised any suspicions, Murdock asked about what had happened to her client, Jones accepted and asked if he knew the killer, to which Murdock lied about not knowing her. Realizing he did not want to be a part of the situation, Murdock attempted to leave, but was stopped by Cage who demanded to reveal more information but dismissed his request.
 ]]
Murdock was then threatened by Cage to take off the mask but decided to threaten him back for fight. When Jones demanded to have a word with Murdock, he took Cage's hand off his shoulder before things got physical and started privately talk. As he was getting ready to leave, Murdock told Jones to lose his card and has been through the same road before. Jones told Murdock that she knows who he is and before he moved on, she told him that he was the Devil of Hell's Kitchen. Rejecting her accusation, Jones told him that it was her job to realize that and had photographic evidence that was destroyed.
 
Asking what she wanted, Murdock listened on about how she needed to complete her case and have nothing to do with the Hand, giving him the choice to fight with the group. Contemplating, Murdock then he took off Jones' scarf, as he walked over to the group, giving the scarf back, and revealed his identity. Once they were settled down, the team decided to have a meal together. Murdock was asked how he was Daredevil to which he responded that it was a long story and rather not tell but he needed to keep it a secret to protect the people he cares about.
 ]]
As Rand expressed that he had the urge to fight back, Murdock remained adamant that they couldn't fight the Hand. As Rand had to further explain that he needed to fight them together, Murdock was surprised at the revelation and expressed that he means well, but needed to be rational about they proceed towards them. They were soon greeted by the arrival of Stick. Murdock was hostile when his old master arrived and warned his allies that they should not trust him. Stick revealed that he was now the last member of the Chaste and the only one who could stop the Hand were the four of them. Stick aggravated Jones and made her leave. Murdock chose to remain to listen to what Stick had to say.
 see the Hand's arrival]]
Once Stick finished his tale, the Defenders began preparing themselves for the Hand's arrival. Murdock talked to his old mentor about Elektra's resurrection. Stick warned him that Elektra was no longer the woman he knew. She was only Black Sky now. Eventually, the Defenders were interrupted by the arrival of Alexandra Reid. Reid tried to convince Rand to join her only to be refused. Reid summoned Elektra but before they could fight, she was interrupted by the return of Jones who smashed a car through the restaurant and hit Elektra. Jones rejoined the Defenders as they all prepared themselves to fight. 
 fighting Murakami]]
Once Murdock and the Defenders were prepared to fight against Elektra, they were soon met with the arrival of the Hand reinforcement led by Murakami, Madame Gao and Sowande. During the fight, Murdock and Rand personally fought against Murakami and swiftly dodged his attacks that resulted into defeating him in close combat. When more reinforcements arrived to surround them, Murdock had to think closely and fought the closer to him. Once Murdock subdued one the reinforcements, he broke away from the group to personally fight against Elektra. After a swift tackle, Murdock spoke to Elektra about having to talk to her but taken out from his grasp and began to kick him out of the restaurant.
 ]]
Now outside of the diner, Murdock tried to make Elektra return to her senses by fighting against her by using grappling techniques to get her to think. As he explained how she died, Murdock was closely defeated until he managed to make her hesitate when he spoke her name, asking what had the Hand had done to her. Once Murakami began confronting him, Murdock moved out the way as Elektra escaped after she punched the man aside. Murdock rejoined his allies and retreated to Chikara Dojo. The group was soon joined by Cage, who had been separated during the battle and captured Sowande. 

#### Questioning of Sowande

 ]]
 
Now that Sowande had been blindfolded and strapped to a chair, Murdock and the others took him to an abandoned theater where he was tied up as they waited for him to regain consciousness. Once Jessica Jones had woken Sowande up with a slap, Sowande was questioned about why the Hand were now in New York City, only for Stick to confirm about the information won't be given up so easily due to being trained in K'un-Lun to never give out any secrets.
 ]]
Demanding any answers, Murdock asked Sowande what he wanted with New York, only for Sowande to tell him that the city had always belonged to the Hand for centuries, with Jones noting that she had traced them over back to 1820. When Danny Rand questioned what the Hand wanted with him, Sowande mocked Rand for his refusal to ever serve them. As they listened to him, Sowande told the group that the Hand wanted the Iron Fist, not Rand himself before proceeding to mock all the group and threatened to kill all their friends, leading to Jones knocking him out. 

#### Protecting His Allies

 about the Hand]]
 
Once the Defenders left Stick to guard Sowande, Murdock managed to find Karen Page inside of the New York Bulletin Building and proceeded to talk to her about something important about the Hand, noting that they came before her and could not let that happen again. Having Page in disbelief of what he was doing, Murdock had to express his concerns with her and had decided to return as Daredevil, with Page understanding his decision but not his reasoning. Once Page tried to not be a part of Daredevil's life, Murdock told her that the Hand would come after him and needed Page to be protected. As Page decided to go along with him, Murdock grabbed and dressed Page's jacket, and told her that she should deserve better.
 's antics]]
Eventually, Murdock was joined by Stick who had returned from taking Page into the 29th Precinct Police Station where she would be safe alongside the rest of their friends. As Stick claimed to be trying to protect him from his two worlds colliding, Murdock told him that this was merely Stick's latest attempt to manipulate him into joining the Chaste and get into the fight which he had no desire to be a part of despite his manipulation. Stick then told Murdock to lead the Defenders, claiming that the Iron Fist was not a suitable leader for them.
 he will not be a leader]]
With Stick's attempt to persuade his view, Murdock claimed that he had no desire to lead anybody into any kind of fight, but Stick noted that he should have more faith in God's plan for him, annoying Murdock over his faith being used against him. Noticing that Stick was trying to manipulate him by reminding of his duty to protect New York City, Murdock decided to leave and demanded that Stick to not try and tell him who he was, already knowing what he's fully aware of the kind of man he really was. 

#### Rescue of Trish Walker

 from a fight]]
 
After having his brief talk with Stick, Daredevil donned on his suit once again and managed to follow Jones to a location where she retrieved her adoptive sister, Trish Walker, who was talking about the recent New York City Earthquake with a team of producers on her show. As Jones tried to escort Walker out of the building, they were ambushed by Murakami. As Jones was confronted by Murakami, the two dueled each other, with Murakami gaining the advantage before pulling a dagger out from his jacket, Jones was saved by Daredevil used his billy club to disarm the dagger out of his hand.
 ]]
Having taken the advantage, Daredevil was discovered by Murakami and both he and Jones worked together to defeat their opponent. Murakami was then overpowered by the combination of Daredevil's speed and agility combined with Jones' remarkable strength. Before Murakami was beaten down, Daredevil witnessed him getting knocked over the railing by Jones, only to vanish. Once they were done fighting, Daredevil was then told by Jones that scarf was better looking and sarcastically complimented his horns before correcting her. 

#### Discussing Elektra

 ]]
 
Eventually, the Defenders returned to the abandoned building, Daredevil used his billy club to wrap a wire tightly around Sowande's neck as he began questioning the Hand's schemes while Sowande struggled to breath. Sowande continued to taunt Daredevil, and claimed that he could not kill him, and even if he did, he would still come back fighting, promising that the Hand would still win. When Sowande briefly mentioned Elektra, Daredevil tightened his grip around Sowande's throat, demanding to know why they had dug up her grave and wanting to know what they had turned her into.
 unconscious]]
As Sowande claimed that Elektra was dead and that she was the Hand's own weapon now as the Black Sky, Daredevil then asked Sowande about the Black Sky, demanding to know what they had done to her and tightening the wire when Sowande refused to answer. Daredevil then told Sowande that Elektra had been given a chance to kill him and refused, calling her a defective weapon; however, Sowande claimed that if this was the case, then the Hand would be forced to execute her, which enraged Daredevil. As the group check on Sowande, Murdock was forced to tell the truth about Elektra.
 ]]
As the group decided to ask for what had happened between him and Elektra, Murdock explained that she was raised by Stick and taught her how to fight just like himself but soon left the Chaste to assume another purpose. Unfortunately, once Elektra had rejected being the Black Sky, Daredevil witness her being killed. Just as Stick insisted that on killing Elektra, Murdock decided to spare her. As Luke Cage argued with Murdock, Sowande woke up and held Rand hostage. Sowande revealed that now that they had the Iron Fist, they could complete their goal, only for Stick to behead him, freeing Rand. 

#### Fighting Iron Fist

 's plans]]
 
When Stick decapitated Sowande with his sword, Murdock insisted that he didn't need to kill him, but Stick told him that it was better than them to capture the Iron Fist. As Stick now believes that Rand's Chi could be some kind of key to giving the Hand what they need, Rand remained unconvinced that he is a weapon and not a key; however, Murdock began to believe that this could be what the Hand was in New York City. Rand then tried to argue that Sowande was likely lying to them, but Murdock told him that his heartbeat didn't waver for a second, leading to Rand to become greatly angry at the team.
 to calm down]]
As Rand kept arguing against the team about how the Hand is letting them fall for their trap, the team decided to think about hiding Rand from them, causing him frustratingly decided to fight the Hand on his own. Murdock then insisted Rand stay against his will, knowing what he was arguing about but won't lose New York. As Rand tried to leave the theater, Murdock stepped in his tracks, letting Rand to furiously threaten the team as they went closer to him. Once he told Rand that he will be safe away from the Hand, Rand swiftly punched him in the face before he threatened him for being told to calm down.
 ]]
Becoming angry after getting hit in the face, Murdock landed a blowback towards Rand's face and pushed him across the room. As the fight started, Murdock tried to land a punch on Rand, dodging and blocking his attempts on harming him until Luke Cage tried to grab him. Recovering from his attempt upon Cage's grasp, Murdock went for flipping back kick on Rand, furthering their conflict with continuing to fight with each other. As Rand kept trying to gain the upper hand, Murdock countered his attacks and punched him across the face, causing Jessica Jones to intervene and stopping Murdock.
 to a chair]]
Once Jones attempted to calm him down, Murdock was kicked down by Rand before he recovered and pushed Jones out of the way. As the fight took a turn at Jones harming Rand, the fight resulted in Rand using his Chi against his team only for a concussive shockwave to erupt the theater's area, causing Murdock's hearing to go temporarily haywire. Once Rand attempted to use the opportunity to escape, Murdock stopped him by grabbing his leg and tripping on the ground, resulting into Jones to punch Rand in the face and letting him become unconscious before the team tied him up. 

#### Midland Circle Mysteries

 's situation]]
 
Once Danny Rand was tied up, Murdock noted the group that the rope was a constrictor knot so that he could not escape so easily. Stick talked to the others about Midland Circle's involvement with the Hand as its headquarters, leading to Murdock to explain that he had been there with Elektra while it was being constructed and found a large hole in the center of it. As the remaining Defenders accused him of keeping vital information from them, Murdock insisted that the information he provided was not important but as Jessica Jones and Luke Cage kept stammering him, he understood that it was a mistake.
 
As Murdock argued against Jones about opening up their past, Stick insisted on focusing on the mission before time runs out. As Stick wonders about going back to Midland Circle, Jones suggested that her client's husband designed the building, leading to both agreeing to arrive at Raymond Residence. Moving into Matt Murdock's Apartment, Jones waited for him to remove his Daredevil Suit. As Jones questioned his lifestyle's financial gain, Murdock commented on the neon billboard across the street and even helped his landlord by beating people up for not paying rent.
 
Having Jones to sarcastically hoping that his comment about beating people was a joke, Murdock apologized for the mess he made upon the New York City Earthquake, leading Jones to be accepting of his messy room compared to her home. Jones then asked Murdock about what he worked for, as Murdock replied that he used to have a partner and an office, but now he did not. As he began putting away his suit, Murdock noticed that his book was left on the ground without his bookmark intact, leading into suspicions. Once Jones asked if he was ready to leave, Murdock told her that he was finally prepared, gathering his walking stick and jacket. 

#### Discovering the Construction

 's client]]
 
As Murdock and Jessica Jones walked into the streets of the city, Murdock was told if they reached their location but was told that all the buildings look the same before she realized that he was blind. Accepting her apology, Murdock asked Jones about the architect, being told that his wife hired her to find John Raymond, despite not knowing that a hole was present in Midland Circle. Jones noted that Raymond had said the Hand was going to take down the city, leading to Murdock ask if he worked for the Hand, to which she was unsure since he told her that Raymond was one of the good guys.
 meet Lexi Raymond]]
Arriving at the residence, Murdock and Jones introduced themselves to Lexi Raymond before she told them that her mother was not home. Once Jones told Lexi that she needed to talk to her, Murdock told Lexi that her father was working for something and that there was more to her father's story. Asking if she could answer a couple of questions, Murdock and Jones entered the apartment and sat down in the guest room. Settling down, Murdock and Jones asked a question about what happened to his father upon killing himself, as Lexi was unsure what happened.
 about her father]]
As Jones kept telling Lexi about what happened to her father was not her fault, Murdock listened to her about how her mother cried herself to sleep every night. Murdock asked Lexi about her father having an office in her house and was told that he kept his work and life separate. Leading to Jones to personally talk to Lexi, Murdock listened to Jones about a friend's father was a boxer who got himself killed and her friend thought his father abandoned him until he learned the truth that his father was killed because he wanted his son to be proud of him, trying to say that Lexi's father was a good guy.
 
Being told that her father was nice to the point where he was boring, Murdock laughed at Lexi's joke, much to Jones' discreet taste for his chuckle. As Lexi further told them that her father had changed from acting normal to acting strange, Murdock asked Lexi if she played piano before being told that her father did. Murdock told Lexi that he used to play piano at church and asked if he could play, to which she accepted. Stumbling upon the instrument, Murdock played a tone that was played but hit a note that was rustling on the strings, leading to Jones to open the top of the piano and look at the plans to Midland Circle. 

#### Kidnapping of Iron Fist

 about his past]]
 
Once Jessica Jones realized that a plan to blow up Midland Circle, Murdock was noted that a hole was below the building and something buried underneath. After knowing the structure of Midland Circle, Murdock and Jones left the Raymond Residence, knowing that John Raymond wanted the building to collapse. After being told about how deep the hole in the building was, Murdock asked Jones about how she knew about his father, to which she discovered his background as a crime fighter, thinking if they could work together, they would trust each other. Murdock told Jones that it was the nicest thing she said to him before being told not to get used to it.
 to stop killing Stick]]
As they went back into their hideout, Murdock heard something was wrong inside, causing him to run after the noise before the situation could get worse. Getting close to their location, Murdock used his acrobatic skills to jump onto many boxes that reached over to the ceiling floor. Murdock hastily ran inside the room and found Elektra fighting against Stick and both Danny Rand and Luke Cage was unconscious. Noticing Elektra was near his presence, Murdock told her to stop whatever she was doing, telling her that she did not belong to the Hand and was not who she was before.
 ]]
Despite Murdock's attempts, Elektra told him that she was happy to see him before Jones entered into the room. Murdock witnessed Elektra murdering Stick with her katana, landing into his heart. Feeling completely remorseful, Murdock tried to stop Elektra but was kicked across the room, leaving him unconscious. Once Murdock was knocked down, Elektra defeated Jones with her superior fighting skills as well as Luke Cage, leading Rand to be kidnapped and taken into the Hand's custody. 

#### Getting Cooperative

 
 
Once the New York City Police Department had been reported into the abandoned theater, Murdock was captured and changed clothing for evidence of any blood they would find. After being unconscious for hours, Murdock woke up to find himself at the 29th Precinct Police Station and was freaked out from the blunt trauma he endured. As he settled down, Murdock was greeted by Foggy Nelson, who arrived and was told where he was and how he looked horrid, further explaining that the police took his shirt for blood samples.
 about Elektra]]
Sitting down to think about the situation, Murdock told Nelson that he needed to go so that the Hand would not use Danny Rand for something they had been planning. Taking a moment to mourn the loss of Stick, Murdock took his jacket to leave but was stopped by Nelson, claiming that he had no position to save anyone. Murdock then noted that Elektra had kidnapped Rand, much to Nelson's disbelief that his ex was still alive. Not caring of Nelson's beliefs, Murdock expressed that he needed to stop the Hand in order to figure out what their plans to do with New York City.
 ]]
Just as he was done expressing what he was doing with the Hand, Murdock was introduced to Misty Knight, who came to ask the many questions from their clients being passed out and two of them dead. As Knight told them about the murders, she told him if he was accountable, letting Murdock joke describing how they sounded, much to Knight's discreetness. Despite that Knight wanted to ask what he witnessed, Murdock noted that he wanted to help, but can't disclose any information despite saying that Rand was way over his head.
 's demands]]
Once Knight was told Murdock that he needed to figure out his situation, Murdock was then taken into a private office with Jessica Jones and Luke Cage and asked them if they were okay from the incident. Being told by Jones if they had a flask on them, Murdock chuckled at her sense of humor before asking how the group was getting out of the station. The group was met with Strieber and Knight and had told them that they should give out any information as witnesses.
 
Murdock proposed that his two clients needed to go home due to emotional distress, but Strieber had decided to lead on and asked them if there were any gaps between what the Hand was doing. As Cage told them that they kidnapped Rand and can protect him, Strieber proceeded that the police have jurisdiction and was ready to call Blake Tower before Murdock told him that he needed to privately talk to his clients. Letting him proceed to do what he would do, Murdock was warned by Strieber not to intervene with his clients, but Knight had persuaded him to let him talk with his clients.
 about his life]]
Once they were escorted out of the office and into another room, Karen Page told Knight to have a moment with Murdock, to which she agreed. Murdock was privately asked what he was doing and noted that it was hard to explain. Page told Murdock that soon the police will know of his Daredevil identity, much to his disagreement. Page noted that Murdock was rebuilding his life but told her that the situation he had brought himself into was his life and left her in the room. Murdock entered a room with his clients just before Cage had a brief moment to talk with Knight.
 ]]
As the group had settled down to talk, Murdock told them that they did not have enough time, being told that Elektra almost had them killed and had no idea what she did with Rand. Noting what Stick has said, Murdock proposed that Rand may still be alive and had suspicions of what John Raymond had known what to do with what the Hand was planning to do. As Cage asked Murdock about where the Hand took Rand, Murdock proposed that they would take him to Midland Circle and as Jones was asked what Raymond was doing, she expressed that there was a hole.
 ]]
Once Cage told the group that they needed to do something without getting arrested, Murdock heard Nelson knocking down the door and opened it, being told that they needed to talk privately. Murdock then hastily agreed to talk to Nelson from across the hallway and was told that his life and his vigilante lifestyle were close to colliding. Being aware of it, Murdock was noted that he needed to be safe before the police could press charges along with Nelson. As Murdock told him that he would leave something important, Nelson gave him his bag of clothing before telling him to aware of being seen as a lawyer.
 
Once the two friends hugged each other, Murdock was curious enough to look at what's under his bag and realized there was his Daredevil Suit, giving him an idea for his escape. Going inside the other room, Cage and Jones had come up with the idea to agree on getting into Midland Circle, letting Murdock know that they were on the same page, he decided to tell their official legal advice. Murdock assisted the group to escape the room by breaking the walls, leaving the precinct. 

#### Traveling to Midland Circle

 
 
Once they had left the precinct and walk down the streets, Murdock had heard the sirens of the police and prompted the group to hide beside a container as one of the cars drove by. Remained undetected, Murdock overheard from afar that the police think that Jessica Jones and Luke Cage had kidnapped him, much to their passive anger. Letting them know they should avoid walking in the streets, Murdock was asked by Jones had told them if they should take a cab, but as he and Cage looked for their wallets, they realized that the police had taken it all. As Jones looked inside Murdock's bag, she proposed to use her MetroCard for a ride on the train.
 on a train]]
Once they agreed on using the card for getting a ride on the public train, Murdock, Jones, and Cage went inside the train and waited for their destination. As Murdock was waiting, Jones had noticed a case of beer from a homeless man while he was sleeping. Taking an opportunity to take one of his beers and drink it, Murdock had listened to her as she made an excuse for it. Once they arrived at Midland Circle, Murdock had to secretly don his Daredevil Suit before they had entered inside. As Jones and Cage had talked about the recent few days they had endured, Murdock finally wore his Suit and prepared to confront the Hand from the back ally.
 ]]
As they went inside the entrance of a parking lot, Daredevil had warned the group of anything that could threaten them. As he noticed that another group of three had waited for their arrival, Daredevil and his team had confronted Madame Gao, Murakami, and Bakuto and told them that they were in the building to retrieve Danny Rand. Gao, however, informed them that the Iron Fist now belonged to them, leading to a standoff as both teams prepared all of their weapons for their battle.
 leaders]]
As the battle began, Gao launched a container of concrete blocks at the Defenders which Daredevil jumped over and engaged in battle with Murakami and Bakuto, using his billy club to block and counter their moves. Despite being two of the Hand's greatest warriors, both Bakuto and Murakami both struggled to fight with Daredevil, using both his strong strikes and remarkable speed to avoid their deadly strikes and kept knocking them back, all while Gao fought against Jones and Cage alone. Being briefly outmatched by Bakuto, Daredevil dodged the many attacks being thrown.
 leaders escape]]
Daredevil managed to regain control as he threw Bakuto away from him, smashing him into yet another sheet of glass before they continued the fight, managing to knock Murakami away as he then engaged in a fight against Cage, leaving him to fight Bakuto alone. As Colleen Wing appeared at the scene, Daredevil engaged in battle with her as they fought against him, managing to land painful strikes against Bakuto in quick succession. Once Daredevil kicked Bakuto toward bricks and others were losing the battle, the Hand ignited sparks that hit a gas pipe, retreating from the fight.
 's arrival]]
Once Cage took care of the gas leakage and crush the pipe to extinguish it, Daredevil witnessed the Hand members who escaped before Wing was gaining suspicion over the bag she was carrying. Just as Misty Knight had driven her car to Midland Circle with Claire Temple, Daredevil and the group were told what they were doing around the building until she suggested how long she would have to stall the approaching authorities that were after them. Once they knew the police are coming, Daredevil went over to the back entrance of the building and told the group to follow him. Entering in the front of the Midland Circle building, Daredevil took his time to rest and focus.
 ]]
Once they grew concerns over Rand's location, Daredevil heard the ground floor and noticed that there was a structure underground, knowing he could be there. As Jones asked him how to get under the structure, Daredevil was unsure of what to do yet only to figure out what they needed to go inside the elevators to reach beneath the ground. Wing then proposed an idea by opening her bag full of C4 explosives from the Police Station, knowing that John Raymond had a plan to bring the Hand down. Daredevil informed their suspicions of being the only ones to fight their leaders and not anyone else. Despite not agreeing with the plan, Daredevil suggested on bringing down the building. 

#### Destruction of Midland Circle

 ]]
 
 
As the group had settled in a circle, Daredevil told Luke Cage about how Colleen Wing's plan to destroy Midland Circle was right, noting that it would shut down the Hand for good. Once Cage disagreed with the idea of bringing the building down, Daredevil told Cage that more people had suffered from the Hand, such as Jessica Jones and Cole Miller. Despite being told that those people had nothing to do with the Hand, Daredevil pointed out that it would help the people in the future.
 ]]
As Cage still refused to go along with the plan, Claire Temple decided to agree with Daredevil on his point about ending the Hand. Knowing that the situation was insane, Temple noted that the group had been affected in some way due to their violent attacks. Daredevil then noted if they might not destroy the Hand, more people would perish, as Wing told Temple that if they could take down the Hand, their actions would not take down New York City. With Jones persuading Cage to go along the plan, Daredevil went along with a plan, which Cage's agreement of not hurting any innocent civilian in the process.
 
Moving around to the front counter, Daredevil had noted that the building's hole was located in the structural center. As Wing had pointed out where the whole was with John Raymond's map, Cage handed out one of the explosives as a remote detonator to Temple, prompting Daredevil to tell Wing that once the group was done fighting the Hand, they would detonate when the team would get out of the building. Despite Wing not wanting to stay behind, Temple persuaded her that they should stay behind. As the plan settled, Daredevil prompted to tell the team to follow him before the police could catch up.
 
As the team went along with him to check up on where the place had access of the hole, Daredevil had found that the place completely empty, guessing there was activity below the building. Finding any odd structure inside the walls, Daredevil used his sense of touch to detect the thin walls that activated as a door. Telling Cage to open the door, Daredevil and the team discovered that the elevator shaft was how the Hand had been closely working on. Knowing well how deep the hole was, Daredevil commented upon the group by saying that he was glad to find them before the awkward talk had ended.
 members]]
Despite their unprepared plan of fighting the Hand, Daredevil and the team walked inside the elevator and waited upon arrival. Hearing any sort of motion, Daredevil noted the team that they were ten stories far before they arrived. With Cage asking who were waiting for them, Daredevil told them that thirty henchmen were inside the hole, including Madame Gao, Murakami, and even Elektra before Jones had negatively asked. Daredevil noted that this battle was a bigger threat than they faced before, leading Jones to ask the group about how to handle the situation.
 ]]
With Cage now thinking of a plan, the team had decided to leave Jones behind and have Cage and Daredevil hide before the Hand had been surprised. Once Jones had arrived inside the hole, she kept them distracted long enough for Daredevil to use his billy club to grapple the ceiling and kick two goons with firearms. Once a fight had broken out, Daredevil began to fight against a henchman and switched over to fighting two other goons simultaneously. Running over the room, Daredevil defeated multiple henchmen before they could attack.
 confront the Hand]]
As the other Defenders kept fighting against multiple men, Daredevil used his skills and enhanced senses to get through many henchmen as they kept running into him. As the team defeated multiple henchmen, Daredevil was confronted by many of them as they kept walking towards them. With Danny Rand now out the Hand's grasp, Daredevil asked him where was Alexandra Reid, being told that Elektra killed her. Expediently being asked by Jones if the elevator was the only way out, Daredevil told her that it was. Knowing the only way out of the building was together, Rand used his Chi to punch the Hand out of the way.
 's goons]]
As multiple Hand members were charging at the team, Daredevil fought them before they landed a single blow at him. With one goon using a blunt weapon against him, Daredevil swiftly fought him and switched over to other two goons with knives, proceeding to front kick them in the face. As Rand began to lose the upper hand, Daredevil began charging against the goon and defeated him quickly. As two goons began shooting their guns at Cage and Jones, Daredevil and Rand knocked them out. As soon as Cage and Jones were battling Elektra, Daredevil attacked her but was proven to be a challenge.
 to leave]]
As Elektra tried to hold on her own, Daredevil would eventually gain the upper hand, only to hear a loud beep from the detonator, causing him to get swept under his feet by Elektra. Trying to trade blows with her, Daredevil was enduring her punches until he landed onto her before letting Jones take her off her feet and throw her across the room, temporarily knocking her out. Daredevil then told the team to get back into the surface, noting he would stay with Elektra. As the group had disagreed, Daredevil told them that they should bring Rand back as they already promised.
 ]]
As the team agreed to leave, Daredevil stopped Rand from moving and whispered in his ear, telling him to protect his city. Once the team was gone, Daredevil was confronted with Elektra and was asked if he was done hiding behind his team, responding that only she was hiding behind herself. Knowing that he lost her once, Daredevil remained composed before Elektra began attacking him. Daredevil grappled her and told her that he loved her only to be thrown across and onto the ground. Daredevil told Elektra that he did not want to hurt her but was told that his love would be his downfall.
 ]]
As Daredevil held his own, he was thrown down once again by Elektra to the point before spitting out blood. As he endured the pain, Daredevil tried to reconnect with Elektra and touched her face, telling her that they could walk out of the building. As Elektra was telling him that before she would be able to die, Daredevil was caught off-guard and had been sliced by one of her Twin Sais. As he laid on the ground, Daredevil told Elektra that the Hand took her life away and how she was not the Black Sky. Despite Elektra's disagreement, Daredevil told her that there was goodness in her when she was alive.
 ]]
With Elektra telling him that she never been so whole, Daredevil told her that they could still manage to get out of the building. Once Elektra threw her sword into the elevator shuttle, the team was temporarily stuck. Just as his team survived, Daredevil continued to fight against Elektra, trying to keep her from using her weapons. As soon as he used his Billy Club against Elektra, Daredevil asked her about killing him already, only to get an answer of being fun but as soon as he gained the upper hand, she taunted him for being alongside him when she would die.
 ]]
Becoming tired with throwing Elektra around, Daredevil had soon been grabbed by her from behind and as they grew fatigued, he commented on how they tried to make their relationship work being responded with having to be together forever. Removing himself out of her grasp, Daredevil attacked Elektra and once he was grabbed by her, she apologized about the way she handled their relationship but Daredevil retorted that they were going to die. Being told that their death was what leaving felt like, they both shared a kiss before the building had collapsed above the hole. 

#### Falling Into a Long Coma

 ]]
 
In the aftermath of the fiery collapse of Midland Circle, Murdock managed to survive the cave-in when his unconscious body was swept by the waters of an underground sewer. Heavily injured and his suit destroyed by the damage it sustained, he found himself at one of New York's docks having been swept out there via sewer drain. Briefly regaining consciousness, Murdock began crawling away from the site before he lost consciousness again due to his injuries. The following morning, a man in a taxi discovered Murdock. Briefly waking up to grab the man, Murdock told him to take him to Paul Lantom at the Clinton Church before falling back unconscious. The driver managed to get Murdock to the Clinton Church, where Lantom then took the unconscious Murdock to the basement of Saint Agnes Orphanage.
 ]]
Briefly regaining consciousness, Murdock overheard Lantom arguing with Maggie Grace about bringing the injured Murdock to the orphanage. Grace wanted to call the authorities, but Lantom urged her not to do so because Murdock was Jack Murdock's son and that he would get arrested for being a vigilante. Murdock lost consciousness again and entered into a coma. 

### Identity Crisis

#### Losing Faith

 
 . And I know my truth now." "What truth?" "Well, that in front of this God... I'd rather die as the Devil than live as Matt Murdock.|Matt Murdock and Maggie Grace|Resurrection (Daredevil)}}
Murdock woke up and overheard the nuns informing Maggie Grace that he was awake. With Grace and Paul Lantom by his bedside, Murdock asked about Elektra. Lantom reminded him that they had a funeral for her only for Murdock to reveal that Elektra was alive and by his side when Midland Circle collapsed; Lantom then told him that he was the only one to escape the rubble. Murdock was asked by Lantom for this confession which Murdock refused.
 ]]
Some months later, during his recovery, some children found Murdock and asked him questions before Grace interrupted telling them to leave so she could clean his wounds. One day, Murdock, who was slowly regaining his enhanced abilities, was taken in a wheelchair by Paul Lantom to meet with Maggie Grace as they wanted to put Murdock to bed. Murdock requested to stay up for a bit, he would then be wheeled by Grace to his bed. The two would have a discussion which ended with Grace giving Murdock her cross necklace.
 
Several more months later, Murdock regained his enhanced abilities, which drove him to start training again in the basement of the church. Murdock worked out by punching a bag. Grace asked Lantom to bring a boxer in for training, something that Murdock appreciated. Although getting the upper hand on the boxer, his senses were still subdued heavily and ceased completely once the boxer managed to land a devastating blow which led to Murdock being defeated by the boxer. After the fight, Murdock decided to take some clothes from the basement and return to the streets as Daredevil again. 

#### Return of the Devil

 
 
 
That night, Daredevil returned to the streets where he saved Rostam Kazemi and his daughter Neda Kazemi from kidnappers. As Daredevil was battling one of the kidnappers, the others tried to strangle him, although he managed to fight off the kidnapers as the Kazemis managed to escape.
 
Due to Daredevil's injuries not having completely healed, he was able to be knocked down by the kidnappers. He then got on his knees and decided to allow the kidnappers to kill him, and asked God to forgive him for choosing to end his life this way. However, before the kidnappers could do something, the New York City Police Department arrived and the attackers decided to run away. prompting Daredevil to do the same. 
 is free]]
Murdock then returned to the church where he was met by Grace, who tried to get through to him about being Daredevil again, but Murdock refused her help and went back on the streets to find the kidnappers that tried to kidnap Rostam Kazemi. Murdock managed to track down the kidnappers to Chris French Cleaners, where they were located. Murdock then returned with his black mask and was able to successfully beat them.

Murdock then called the NYPD to let them know about the attempted kidnapping of Rostam. Murdock then headed to the hospital to tell her to testify against them at the 15th Precinct Police Station. Murdock then changed from his Daredevil costume to his street clothes and left the hospital when his hearing returned. He then heard emergency services discuss that the FBI had released Wilson Fisk from Rikers Island. 

#### Reuniting with Nelson

 ]]
 
Murdock arrived at the Presidential Hotel where there were many protesters, who wanted Wilson Fisk to go back to prison. Murdock began imagining Fisk who taunted him. Murdock decided he would have to find a discreet way in the hotel, avoiding the FBI agents. Murdock would disguise himself as an employee of the hotel where he would head to the caf where he was met by the imagined Fisk which continued taunting Murdock. Leaving the caf, Murdock encountered Benjamin Poindexter who asked for ID, and decided to leave to avoid a confrontation.
 agents]]
Donning his suit, Daredevil attacked Benjamin Donovan to get information on why the Albanian Syndicate wanted to kill Fisk. Before he could get the information he would need, the FBI agents arrived in the parking lot where Donovan called out for help which caused the FBI to shoot at Daredevil.
 ]]
He managed to defeat the FBI and escape back to the church to talk with Grace where they had another anger-laced philosophical discussion on God, paths were chosen in life and whether human beings would really change. In a bar, Murdock met with Foggy Nelson and revealed to him that he was alive and hiding but only to inform of his refusal to join regular life, as his only goal now was to bring Fisk down by any costs. He warned him and Karen Page to stay away, before stealing Nelson's wallet while leaving. 

#### Infiltration into Rikers Island

 ]]
 
Murdock would return to his apartment, where he would change into a suit and would catch a taxi to Rikers Island. When he arrived at the prison, Murdock told the taxi driver to wait for him. As he headed inside the prison, Murdock used the ID that he has stolen from Nelson to impersonate him.
 ]]
Murdock asked to see Michael Kemp who was a former client of Nelson and Murdock. Once he met up with him, Murdock asked Kemp why the Albanian Syndicate attacked Fisk. He also asked for an introduction with Vic Jusufi. Murdock noticed that this caused Kemp to become nervous and everyone in the room began watching them. Then the panicking Kemp punched Murdock without warning which caused guards to restrain him. As Kemp got dragged away by the guard, he loudly declared that he had not said anything. Murdock was asked by a guard to get a health check which he reluctantly agreed to.

Following the guard to the medical office, Murdock was told to wait for the nurse. When the nurse arrived, he checked Murdock to see if he had a broken jaw which he didn't. The nurse was going to check Murdock's eyes to see if he had a concussion which Murdock refused to not reveal that he was blind. Murdock asked for the paperwork and the nurse complied. While the nurse prepared the paper. Murdock noticed a camera in the room. Suddenly the nurse attacked and attempted to inject Murdock with some kind of drug he partially succeeded but wasn't able to inject the full dose. After knocking the nurse unconscious, Murdock felt his senses getting dulled by the drug.
 is watching]]
Finding himself in a locked room, Murdock tried to look for a way to escape until the phone in the room rang. Answering the phone, Murdock was answered by Fisk. His adversary complimented on his impressive reflexes despite his blindness, revealing that he was the one watching Murdock through the camera. Fisk reminded him of their previous interaction about how Murdock threatened to prevent him from reuniting with Vanessa Marianna. Coldly, his adversary stated that this was something he could not forgive.
 
Before Murdock could respond, Fisk ended the call and unlocked the door so Murdock could leave the medical room. When Murdock left the room, he was confronted by prison inmates who were there to kill him on Fisk's orders. A difficult battle took place as the unprepared and partially drugged Murdock fought against his attackers. Despite his weakened state due to the drug injection, Murdock managed to defeat his opponents and began heading toward the exist. As he reached another hallway, he was approached by two armored guards. Despite Murdock's plead for help, he realized that the guards were under Fisk's influence and immediately began fighting them.
 ]]
After knocking out the guards, Murdock resumed his attempt to escape from the prison. As the prison began initiating a lockdown and the prisoners began rioting, Murdock was attacked by another inmate. After forcefully leading him to another room, it turned out that the inmates were working for Jusufi who was waiting for Murdock in the room. Jusufi demanded to know who Murdock was and why Fisk wanted him dead. Jusufi chastised Murdock's recklessness by coming to the prison by himself as Fisk still controlled half of the prison and the guards.

Murdock explained the situation to Jusufi about how he imprisoned Fisk, and that Fisk went after Jusufi's gang. Murdock followed the clues to the prison because the Albanian Syndicate tried to kill Fisk in the prison. Jusufi clarified that he nor his men tried to assassinate Fisk while he was in prison. He explained that Fisk bribed someone to stab him to convince the feds, in return the attacker was freed from prison. Murdock managed to convince Jusufi that they had a common enemy in Fisk, and he promised that if he helped him, Fisk would return back to prison. Agreeing to help, Jusufi ordered his men to disguise themselves as one of the guards, Jusufi told Murdock to find Jasper Evans, the inmate who stabbed Fisk and make sure their adversary return back to prison, otherwise he will come after him.
 ]]
With one of the Albanian disguised as guard escorting him, Murdock traversed through now the rioting prison. Using his enhanced senses, Murdock aided his escort by warning him of approaching guards and which route to go. Managing to avoid the pursuing corrupt guards and fighting off the rampaging prisoners, Murdock's escort was able to lead him to the entrance where Murdock was guided out of the prisoner by other guards who weren't under Fisk's payroll. Protected by the guards as the rioting kept ensuing outside the prison, the guards opened the gate for Murdock. Once Murdock was out of prison, he managed to find his way back to the taxi that was waiting for him. Telling his driver to start driving, Murdock allowed himself to fall unconscious due to exhaustion and the drug finally taking effect.

Hours later, Murdock woke up to find a taxi still driving. Murdock asked his driver to stop, but to his horror, he discovered that this was a different driver, another agent of Fisk. Before Murdock could stop him, the driver jumped out of the taxi. The car was being driven toward the docks. Despite Murdock's attempts to leave, he found himself locked inside the cab. He was unable to do anything as the taxi drove off the dock. 

#### Reuniting with Page

 ]]
 
Murdock managed to survive; however, he quickly discovered that he was framed by Wilson Fisk as a criminal. Murdock returned to his apartment where he heard the FBI agents led by Ray Nadeem coming into his apartment which caused Murdock to escape to the rooftop. After the FBI left, Murdock returned to his apartment and changed into his black suit. He then went to Karen Page's home where he was met by Page herself.
 ]]
Murdock explained the reason he stayed away from her and Foggy Nelson was to protect them from Fisk. Murdock then asked Page for help to find Jasper Evans, which she initially refused. Murdock would later save Page from Evans and the two would take Evans to the Bulletin. Page also explained that she and Nelson needed him to turn himself in to the FBI so that he could have his name cleared. Murdock returned to the Clinton Church, where he would meet Maggie Grace who helped clean his clothes and the two would talk about Page. 
 

#### Attack on the Bulletin

 ]]
 
Murdock met with Foggy Nelson at the New York Bulletin Building, however, while they were waiting, Murdock heard that someone was attacking the staff of the Bulletin. Suiting up, Murdock charged upstairs and found an assassin attacking and killing several staff members of the New York Bulletin while wearing his Daredevil Suit. Murdock arrived just in time to grab the billy club thrown at Nelson before it could kill him. Surprised by the arrival of this new adversary who was dressed in his Daredevil suit they both took a moment to observe one another. When Daredevil asked the imposter who he was, the impostor sarcastically replied that he was Daredevil. The two combatants immediately began battling on the office floor. At first, Daredevil immediately proved to be superior in close combat.
 ]]
Despite the impostor's best attempt, he was unable to truly gain an edge over Daredevil in hand-to-hand. Deciding to play to his strengths using his uncanny accuracy, the impostor threw objects at Daredevil with lethal intent. The fake Daredevil continuing to hurt him from a distance and forced to stay behind cover on the defensive.

As the fight kept escalating with Daredevil continuously trying to get in close and the fake Daredevil keeping the distance, Daredevil ultimately managed to get in close and once again overpower the impostor. Putting him in a sleeper hold. However, before he could be defeated, the impostor grabbed nearby scissors and pierced his opponent's shoulder. Daredevil then got a shelf thrown down on top of him and was kicked unconscious. When Murdock awoke up, he was forced to make his escape from the FBI who were still confused over what had happened and who was responsible. 

#### Raid on Melvin's

 ]]
 
Following the massacre at the New York Bulletin Building, Murdock returned to the church to heal up and feeling angry and guilty he furiously explained to Maggie Grace that he failed to stop the fake Daredevil and save Jasper from being murdered. As she tended to his wounds, Grace remarked on the Daredevil's Suit used by the impostor and how it could not have been acquired at a store, which made Murdock realize that the replica suit had to come from its original creator. Daredevil then sought out Melvin Potter who said goodbye to Betsy Beatty his parole officer. Daredevil was informed by Potter about the second suit. Daredevil was taken to Potter's new workshop who locked Daredevil in a cage with another copy of the suit, revealing that it was Fisk's plan to have him caught with the suit.
 ]]
Daredevil broke free of the cage; however, and the two men fought as FBI SWAT teams closed in around them. Realizing their imminent danger, the two men fought together against the heavily armed agents until Potter was cornered by several agents and their machine guns. Daredevil used this opportunity to escape and left Potter to be taken into custody for parole violation and assaulting federal agents while he cried out for Beatty.

Daredevil met up with Beatty informing her that she should leave New York because Fisk would be looking for her Beatty accused him of being no better than Fisk for using Potter for his own agenda. Daredevil then left and headed to Ray Nadeem's house to warn Nadeem about Fisk and to inform Nadeem that the fake Daredevil was a man in the FBI. 

#### Investigating Benjamin Poindexter

 ]]
 
Meeting with Nadeem the next day, Daredevil learned that the possible identity of the impostor is Benjamin Poindexter. Nadeem suggested that they headed to his apartment and look for clues to see if there were any ties to the attack on Bulletin. With Nadeem making sure that Poindexter stayed at the office, Daredevil and his new ally sneaked into Poindexter's apartment and began looking for clues. Inside, Daredevil caught the scent of the suit and thus confirming that Poindexter was the impostor.

However, without any concrete proof, Daredevil's claim was useless. They continued to investigate the apartment and Daredevil opened Poindexter's safe but found no presence of the suit except weapons and tapes. Eventually, Daredevil was alerted to the presence of Poindexter, and he quickly retreated with Nadeem to the apartment above through the fire escape.
 check the vault]]
Above the apartment, they began discussing what to do with Poindexter. But before they could talk about it further, Poindexter shot them by ricocheting the bullets. With Nadeem injured by the shot, Daredevil urged his ally to escape. After making sure Nadeem left the apartment, Daredevil confronted Poindexter at the fire escape before he made his own escape. He deflected most of the glass pillars that his enemy threw at him before escaping to the roofs. While they didn't found any proof on Poindexter, Daredevil managed to grab the tapes about Poindexter's therapy sessions. 

#### Revelations

 
Returning back to the church, Murdock kept listening to the tapes as he continued his training. Murdock talked to Grace about Poindexter's past, and his background resembled him. Murdock talked to the sister about his missed opportunities to catch him. Grace assured him that he did what he thought was right and he kept his promise to Nadeem to not hurt him. But Murdock bitterly replied that more people will die because of his decision. While Murdock trained, he heard about Grace's praying. As he trained, he heard Grace's prayers, in which she revealed that he was the son she sired with Jack Murdock. Murdock was shocked by the revelation that she was the mother he never knew, and that such a secret was kept from him. 

Looking for answers, Murdock found Paul Lantom playing pool with Mark at a bar and asked if his old friend knew about Grace being his mother. Murdock realized that Lantom knew about the secret and demanded to know why he would keep that a secret from him during his childhood, when he needed family the most. Lantom stated that he wished that Grace would tell Murdock the truth herself, but Murdock harshly retorted that she didn't visit him or comforted him when his father died. Lantom told the history to Murdock about how Grace and Jack met and how after being afflicted with postpartum depression she left them to return back to the church. After listening to the story and still angry for his mentor's hypocrisy about truth, Murdock left the bar. After briefly returning back to the church and retrieve what he had, Murdock took refuge at Fogwell's Gym.
 ]]
Not long after, he received a phone call from Nadeem who warned him to be ready because Fisk was planning something. While in solitude inside the gym, Murdock imagined having a conversation with his father, Jack. In his mind, he confronted his father about both of his parents leaving him, accusing him of choosing his own pride over being with his son, while his imagined father tried to make him forgive his mother. Murdock then decided he wouldn't let people get hurt over a moral code anymore and declared that he was going to kill Fisk. Later during the day, Murdock received a phone call from Nadeem who gave him the address to Fisk's location. As he continued to have his conversation with his father, his imagined conversation turned darker when his father was replaced by Fisk who began taunting him. In his mind, Murdock killed Fisk by snapping his neck.

Leaving the gym, instead of heading to the location where Nadeem has texted, Murdock headed to the hotel instead. Shutting down the light of the hotel and avoiding Fisk's guards, Daredevil entered Fisk's penthouse and found a secret stair leading to a surveillance room. Finding Shelby and reassuring her that he wasn't there to kill her, he asked her when Fisk will return and was informed that he will return soon. Before Daredevil could prepare, he heard from the radio that Karen Page was located at Clinton Church and he learned from Shelby that Fisk wants her killed. 

Deeply conflicted about his desire to kill Fisk and to protect Page, Daredevil wrestled with his choice. Shelby warned him that if he leaves now, she must inform Fisk about his appearance and that he will triple the security. After one more moment of hesitation, Daredevil told her to do what she has to do and immediately left the hotel and save Page. 

#### Duel at Clinton Church

 ]]
 
 
Rushing toward Clinton Church, Daredevil arrived just moments after Benjamin Poindexter began his attack on the innocent participants in the church. He began battling Poindexter, but having been weakened by his fatigue from reaching the church, Poindexter managed to catch him off guard and momentarily got Daredevil off of him. Using the opening, Poindexter threw his baton at Paul Lantom, who was impaled by the weapon. Enraged at what Poindexter did to his friend and mentor, Daredevil began furiously beating him. During the fight, he stopped when Lantom used his last words to ask for Murdock's forgiveness before dying. Poindexter used this moment of opening to regain his footing and both combatants continued battling in the church.
 ]]
During the battle, Daredevil ensured that Page led the participants out of the church while also preventing any attempts from Poindexter to kill her. Despite Daredevil's superiority in close combat, the protection gained from the suit prevented Daredevil from dealing with any serious damage on his opponent and eventually, Poindexter was able to wear him down. Poindexter managed to get Daredevil off him and continued his pursuit on Page. Daredevil managed to catch up to him at the balcony. Unfortunately, Daredevil was too weakened by his exhaustion to be able to fight his adversary. Upon knocking Daredevil down to the floor, Poindexter went for the killing blow before he was knocked off the balcony by Page. 

#### Reuniting with Friends

 
After waking up from being unconscious, Murdock was informed by Page that the authority was coming and that she intended to surrender herself to know and explain the situation. He urged Page not to surrender herself to the authorities as the impostor was an FBI agent and the FBI was working for Fisk. They retreated down to the church basement and Murdock locked the gates. As they hid down the basement, Murdock asked Page about her presence in the church, and she revealed that she came to warn him about Fisk knowing his identity. Murdock replied that he already knew and he told Page that he gave up his chance to kill him in order to save her.

Before they could continue, Murdock heard Poindexter and Nadeem approaching the basement. They were forced to hide inside a sarcophagus. Thanks to the diversion of Maggie Grace, they were able to avoid getting caught. They continued their discussion as they waited for the FBI to leave. Murdock learned about Page's failed plan to provoke Fisk at his penthouse, and she revealed that she killed James Wesley. Murdock admitted his own plan to kill Fisk. Page approached and urged Murdock not to go through with it. Having experienced it before, Page advised him not to tread that path as that would change everything about him and that he could never atone from it.

Not long afterwards, they were approached by Grace who has come to help them. Still hurt by his mother's past choices, Murdock made an effort to reconnect with her. More problems came when Murdock sensed that the FBI brought in search dogs. While Grace diverted the FBI away, Page confronted Murdock about his tendency to wall himself off from everyone. While they argued, she reminded him that despite his recent behavior toward Foggy Nelson, his friend is still willing to stand by him. Realizing that they could use Nelson's assistance, he called him. Devising a plan together with Nelson, they planned to use Nelson to help surrender Page to the NYPD under Brett Mahoney who was not under Fisk's influence. While listening to the plan coming to fruition, Murdock heard Nadeem advising Mahoney to take Page far away from the FBI, thus Murdock realized that he was trustworthy and that his action put him in danger.
 and Foggy Nelson]]
Meeting with Page and Nelson afterward, Murdock apologized to his friends about the way he treated them. They began discussing what to do next. Murdock remained adamant that killing Fisk was the only way to put him down for good while Nelson maintained his faith in the system. Eventually, Murdock agreed to Nelson's plan to use the law against Fisk. Knowing that Nadeem had everything to lose and that he was now being hunted by Fisk, Murdock immediately went to save him. Arriving at Nadeem's residence just when Fisk's men attacked Nadeem, Daredevil quickly dispatch the attackers. Nadeem held Daredevil at gunpoint, not believing that he was there to help him after he betrayed him. Daredevil admitted that he's trusting Nadeem and that he was grateful that he helped saving Page. As a sign of trust to convince him, Daredevil pulled off his mask and revealed his identity. 

#### Protecting Agent Nadeem

 
Once again working together with Nelson as lawyers, they made sure that Nadeem and his family got to safety at Brett Mahoney's residence. They used Fogwell's Gym as a temporary office and hideout. While they waited for Nelson to arrive with Blake Tower, Murdock confronted Nadeem about allowing Fisk to leave prison and letting himself be corrupted despite his morals. When Nadeem defended his action that Fisk's intel saved lives, Murdock furiously replied that it only allowed Fisk to reclaim his power. He further confronted Nadeem about his inaction when his boss killed an agent, or he did not intervene when Poindexter murdered Paul Lantom. Nadeem admitted his mistake and was remorseful that his action caused him to lose his family and life. Softened, Murdock urged Nadeem to tell that to Tower. Soon after, Nelson arrived with Tower, and they began negotiating.

After listening to Nadeem, Tower stated that he could convene a special grand jury on the current day. However, despite Murdock and Nelson's attempts to defend Nadeem's actions, Tower refused to grant him immunity and the best offer he could give was five years. Nadeem agreed to Tower's term and to testify for the jury. While Nadeem called his son, Nelson expressed his desire to work together with Murdock again to which Murdock agreed.
 escape assassins]]
Soon NYPD came to escort Nadeem to the courthouse. Murdock decided to go with him. Using a disguised van as their transport, they headed to the courthouse. Along the way, they were ambushed by Fisk's agents. With their driver killed by the initial gunfire, Murdock and Nadeem were forced to fight through their attackers. Using his enhanced senses for any approaching attackers, Murdock guided Nadeem as they fought off their attackers. After dispatching their attackers, they used an abandoned cab to head toward the courthouse.

Getting Nadeem to the courthouse, Murdock and his friends could only wait for the jury to make their judgment. Unfortunately, despite their efforts, Fisk had already prepared for this. Murdock heard the juror being threatened by having one of them begin reciting their addresses. With their lives being threatened, the juror has elected not to indict Fisk. Defeated, Murdock and his allies try to find another way to stop Fisk. However, while Murdock was out to talk to Tower, Nadeem made his escape. Later at night while they were at Fogwell's Gym, they learned from Mahoney that Nadeem was killed. Furious that their plan failed and the failure of the system, Murdock left his friends at the gym and intend to pursue his original plan to murder Fisk. 

#### Kidnapping of Felix Manning

 ]]
 
In order to get to Fisk, Daredevil pursued Felix Manning and managed to catch him. At night, he aggressively interrogates him and learned that Fisk planned to have a wedding with Vanessa Marianna and to charm Hell's Kitchen into loving him again. Through Manning, Daredevil learned that Marianna ordered the murder of Nadeem. He also claimed that he could testify that Fisk ordered the deaths of Winn and Julie Barnes. Learning about Barnes and her connection to Benjamin Poindexter, Daredevil found a way to turn him against Fisk.
 ]]
Stealing Manning's phone, he used that to call Poindexter the next day. Using all the knowledge that he has gained from listening to Eileen Mercer's tapes and Barnes's connection to Poindexter, Daredevil was able to lure Poindexter to the disclose location where he Barnes' corpse was located and was able to convince Poindexter that Fisk had her killed. Having successfully convinced Poindexter to turn against Fisk, Daredevil prepared his assault. 

#### Battle at the Presidential Hotel

 ]]
 
Using Poindexter to pave the way for him, Daredevil followed him until they finally reached Fisk who was at the dance floor with Marianna. He arrived in time to prevent Poindexter from killing Marianna. The wedding erupted into chaos. While Fisk and Marianna quickly retreated, Daredevil pursued them as Poindexter found himself occupied with fending off Fisk's corrupted FBI agents. Heading to the surveillance room, Daredevil quickly dispatch Fisk's men and ordered Shelby to shut down the elevators so they couldn't stop him.
 ]]
Heading up the stairs leading to Fisk's penthouse, Daredevil finally faced his hated enemy, emerging into a furious fight inside the penthouse. While they fought, Poindexter arrived at the penthouse. His arrival turned the fight into a brutal three-way struggle. During the fight, Daredevil protected Marianna from Poindexter's attacks to kill her while also fighting off both Kingpin and Poindexter. Eventually, Poindexter was defeated when Kingpin broke his back. Now facing each other alone, both nemeses immediately resumed their battle. Having gained more experienced and battle-hardened since their last fight, Daredevil managed to defeat the Kingpin. Having him at his mercy, Daredevil began brutally beating his enemy. Marianna pleaded for Daredevil not to kill him. Daredevil held Kingpin's neck but barely managed to stop himself from snapping his neck and stopped his assault.
 ]]
Kingpin warned him that he will never stop hunting Karen Page and Foggy Nelson and he will tell the world who Daredevil really is. Daredevil realized that Kingpin wanted him to kill him. His enemy stated that no prison can hold him and once again baited him to kill him. Daredevil defied his attempts to taunt him and refused to take the bait. Despite his desire to kill him, Daredevil firmly stated that his enemy will never destroy who he is. Finally regaining his conviction and beliefs in the law, Murdock declared his victory over his adversary and that Kingpin will spend the rest of his life in prison. Showing his face and defiance to Fisk, Murdock warned Fisk to stop hunting his friends and to keep his secret, otherwise, he will make sure that Marianna will spend the rest of her life in prison for ordering the death of Nadeem. Defeated, Kingpin agreed to the deal with Daredevil.

Soon Brett Mahoney arrived and arrested Kingpin. They also arrested Poindexter and Mahoney made sure that the police knew that he was an impostor. From atop the hotel, Daredevil observed as Kingpin and his agents got taken away by the authorities. 

#### A Man Without Fear

 at the funeral]]
 
Days passed, the day for Paul Lantom's funeral arrived. Murdock took the time to privately speak with his mother. He told her about his last conversation with Lantom and regretted the word he said to his old friend. He told her about Lantom's last plead to forgive them. Murdock further told his mother about how he was angry at God for blinding him and giving him so much pain. But he admitted that despite his hardship, it was the same life that turned him into Daredevil, and he would not have been able to save people. Murdock forgave his mother and asked her to guide him when he needed her. To which, Grace accepted.
 's funeral]]
During Lantom's funeral, Murdock held a eulogy to his friend. Murdock spoke about the people present for Lantom's funeral and expressed how the priest influenced so many people. Murdock talked about the ideas that Lantom spread to Hell's Kitchen about helping the community and the people within it. He talked about how he stood up against someone who used fear as a tool to hurt people. Murdock expressed his admiration for his old mentor and urged everyone to live by his example; to be a man without fear. 

### Return to Normal

#### Nelson, Murdock & Page

 and Nelson]]
 
Following the funeral, Murdock headed to Nelson's Meats to spend a day having awake there with Nelson and Page. Murdock informed his friends that he intends to move back into his apartment and return back to work as a lawyer. Excited, Nelson wrote on a napkin and proposed that their new firm would be called Nelson, Murdock & Page. Both Murdock and Page agreed to their friend's proposal. With his life reclaimed, his reputation restored and his adversary back in prison, Murdock looked forward to a life working with his friends. By the 2020s, Nelson, Murdock & Page was officially in business in Hell's Kitchen, focusing mainly on pro bono cases. However, for financial reasons, Murdock occasionally took on cases with bigger clients. During this time, Murdock, Nelson, and Page befriended NYPD Detective Cherry, with whom they had drinks at Josie's Bar and whom Murdock lend his assistance handling cases. 

#### Donning the Suit Again

 
 
In 2018, Murdock survived the Snap and elected to resume his vigilante activities as Daredevil, receiving a new suit and a pair of billy clubs. In 2021, Daredevil was monitoring one of Kingpin's territories, as Kingpin had also survived the Snap and was no longer in prison, and observed for hours as a rival crew began a takeover on Kingpin's warehouse.
 ]]
However, the rival crew were attacked and killed when three people working for Kingpin arrived. Daredevil then decided to reveal himself and knocked out two of them with ease. The third person, a woman named Maya Lopez, did not go down as easy, so Daredevil engaged her in a fight while expressing how they had ruined his plans. Daredevil countered Lopez's moves easily, but one of Lopez's allies got back up and tackled him.
 ]]
Daredevil swiftly knocked him out and leapt over a fence, avoiding a shotgun blast from Lopez. Daredevil then knocked the gun out of her hand and used the grappling hook in his billy club. He endured a brief scuffle before he knocked her down and dropped a shelving unit on Lopez, pinning her for a brief moment, which allowed him to swiftly escape. 

#### Representing Peter Parker

 ]]
 
In 2024, Murdock acted as the defense lawyer of Peter Parker after he was believed to be responsible for the death of Mysterio and for orchestrating the drone attack in London. Murdock met with Peter, Happy Hogan and May Parker at the Parker Residence where he finished a phone call.
 of the investigation]]
Upon hanging up, he informed Peter that the charges against him would not hold. As the three celebrated this victory, thanking Murdock for his legal counsel, he warned Hogan that there was an active investigation into him regarding the missing Stark Industries technology used and advised that he hire a really good lawyer. Murdock then warned Peter that the situation would continue to escalate as, despite being clear of any legal troubles, public opinion of whether Parker was innocent or guilty would still affect him going forward.
 
At that moment, Murdock heard a pro-Mysterio supporter throwing a brick through the Parkers' window and caught it backhanded, preventing it from striking anyone, much to their shock. Murdock noted that Peter's arm was outstretched to catch the brick. As he handed the brick to Peter to examine, his stunned client asked how Murdock was able to do so, and he merely replied that he was a really good lawyer. 

#### Representing Happy Hogan

 ]]
 
Murdock was shortly hired by Happy Hogan to be his attorney, and represented Hogan during an interrogation with Damage Control.
 ]]
As Murdock defended his client to P. Cleary, Hogan was too nervous and distracted to concentrate on the meeting, as he witnessed an alert on his phone. Aware that Hogan had started sweating, Murdock urged him to stop, prompting Hogan to ask how he could do that. Murdock did not respond to the question and reverted his attention back to Cleary and the other Damage Control agents. 

#### Forgetting Peter Parker

In November 2024, all of Murdock's memories regarding Peter Parker, including his identity as Spider-Man, were erased. 

### Adventures in Los Angeles

#### Acquiring New Suits

 
By 2025, Murdock hired superhero outfit designer Luke Jacobson in Los Angeles to create a couple of Daredevil suits for him, revealing his identity to Jacobson in the process. One of the suits was nearly identical to his previous suit, albeit with a golden yellow as the new primary color. 

#### Representing Luke Jacobson

 ]]
 
Murdock was contacted by Luke Jacobson for legal representation after he had been served a lawsuit for product liability. Feeling he owed Jacobson for being his suit designer, Murdock agreed to represent him, with Jacobson being sued by Eugene Patilio, represented by Jennifer Walters as She-Hulk, for selling him a defective suit. Murdock went to JFK International Airport Daredevil: Born Again Stars Promise to Blow Up the Netflix Past Interview and flew from New York City to Los Angeles. Arriving in the West Coast, Murdock made his way to the Los Angeles Metropolitan Courthouse.
 ]]
As he entered the courtroom, Murdock apologized to Judge Price for being late, making light of his blindness by joking that he had a hard time finding a place to park before revealing that how his driver had gotten lost. Murdock then introduced himself as Jacobson's attorney, taking his place next to his client while apologizing for his tardiness.
 in court]]
He then requested that She-Hulk's motion to obtain Jacobson's client list be rejected, deeming it not relevant to their litigations. Murdock then reminded She-Hulk of Jacobson's record of customer satisfaction that she could personally attest to when she argued about the possibility of other clients suffering injury due to malfunctions in their equipment.
 's clients]]
When She-Hulk continued pushing for the list, Murdock argued that it would be an invasion of privacy for the superheroes who wished to remain anonymous. He pushed even further when she rebutted that their case was a "common procedure" in product liability lawsuits, as he pointed out that it wasn't just about productivity, but the protection of Jacobson's clients' safety as well as their loved ones, reminding Price that the Sokovia Accords had been repealed, allowing heroes to legally operate anonymously once more.
 's points]]
He then put superheroes, who were celebrities like She-Hulk, in a separate category to the ones who had loved ones who could be hurt if their enemies knew who they were. He finished his argument with the notion that Patilio's misuse of his suit was not worth exposing the list, which would not only ruin Jacobson's reputation, but put a lot of people in jeopardy, which Price agreed with.
 ]]
After Patilio pulled out his broken suit to complain, Murdock smelled jet fuel and inquired what type of fuel Patillo used for his boosters. Patilio admitted that he used jet fuel, which resulted in Jacobson revealing that doing so was in violation of his instructions. When Patilio tried to lie, Murdock exposed him, but refused to explain how he knew. With this revelation, the case was dismissed due to user error, absolving Jacobson of any wrongdoing. Having won the case, Murdock packed up his supplies while She-Hulk talked with Jacobson. 

#### Drinks with Jennifer Walters

 ]]
 
Murdock then went to Legal Ease Bar & Grill to grab a drink before he returned to New York City the next day. While there, he sensed that Jennifer Walters was sitting across from him at the bar and bought an appletini for her, which he asked Pedro to deliver to Walters as a peace offering.
 joke around]]
With her blessing, Murdock joined Walters, asking Pedro to move his drink over to her side of the bar. When questioned why a New York lawyer flew to Los Angeles for a case as minor as product liability, Murdock explained to her that he owed Luke Jacobson for making a few suits for him. Murdock then chuckled at Walters' crack at his fashion sense and jokingly asking if he was indeed wearing pants.
 ]]
Murdock then learned that Walters did her research on him when she asked about his law firm in Hell's Kitchen. It was then followed with Walters asking how he knew about Leapfrog using jet fuel in his rocket boots, but Murdock claimed it was simply a "hunch"; hiding the fact that he had extraordinary senses. He then questioned what Patilio's "deal" was with how he acted in court, only to laugh at Walters' mockery of her client's wealthy parents.
 
Murdock then described his law firm to Walters, explaining that they mostly did pro-bono work for clients in order to do some good but on occasion took cases for bigger clients for the money. Walters told him that her situation was the opposite, as she was a full-time attorney for big clients and thus had no time to also help others. Murdock, however, pointed out that Walters was in a unique situation, one where she could use her status as a lawyer to help people when society failed them, but that when the law failed them, she could aid them as She-Hulk.
 ]]
Murdock's phone began to ring, so he excused himself to answer it, where he was informed that Jacobson had been kidnapped by Patilio. Murdock returned to Walters, who wished to buy him a drink and continue their conversation, although he apologized for having to leave abruptly as something had "come up with work." Before leaving the bar, Murdock struggled to articulate a goodbye to Walters, before chuckling and settling on that it was nice to meet her. 

#### Chasing Leapfrog

 to back off]]
 
Donning his golden yellow suit, Daredevil found Leapfrog at a parking garage. Daredevil jumped onto Patilio's car and rode on top of it to a parking garage until She-Hulk arrived to save her client. She-Hulk stopped the car using her strength and Daredevil was launched off of it. Acrobatically landing, he stood up and took a look at She-Hulk, telling her she needed to back off.
 's attacks]]
She-Hulk told Leapfrog to get out of there while she fought Daredevil, claiming she will whoop his ass. She then punched the ground, causing the floor of the garage to collapse. Daredevil swung off of the debris onto a car, saying his ass was unwhooped. As She-Hulk charged at him, he jumped off the side of the building and used his acrobatics to make his way to the ground, just missing Patilio's car.
 ]]
Daredevil chased after the car before She-Hulk got in his way once again. He dodged her attack and proceeded to chase after the car once again. However, he was knocked down when She-Hulk threw a car towards him. He quickly jumped out of the way of another attack before running once more. She-Hulk then thunderclapped him into a parked car, overwhelming his hearing ability. Daredevil angrily groaned before She-Hulk picked him up and removed his cowl, revealing his true identity. Realizing that he was Murdock, She-Hulk reverted back into Walters and said it was problematic if he was pretending to be blind.
 
Murdock explained that he was blind and used other methods to "see." He also explained that Leapfrog was the bad guy as he had kidnapped Luke Jacobson. Walters asked why he did not tell her that and Murdock responded wondering why she did not ask him before trying to attack him. Walters said that she only assumed the guy dressed as a devil was the bad one, to which Murdock agreed that was a fair point. 
 
Walters then asked him in admiration if he was a superhero, wondering if he was called the "Gold Devil," but Murdock informed her that he was Daredevil, astonished that she had not heard of him. When she made fun of his color scheme, he jokingly told her he would tell Jacobson what she said. As he laughed, he informed her that he had to save his client from her client, and Walters offered to join him. When Daredevil mentioned that the parking garage had been destroyed, Walters told him that she would leave a note. 

#### Rescue of Luke Jacobson

 team up]]
 
The duo pulled up to the Lily Pad which had a giant red sign on the warehouse stating its name. Jennifer Walters sarcastically remarked at the subtlety of it. They got to the roof and watched Leapfrog and the kidnapped Luke Jacobson through the window.
 bickering]]
Daredevil was able to hear the heartbeats of the guards and figure out how many there were. Walters remarked at how unbelievable that is. Daredevil then pointed out that hers was beating very fast. He said he was going to sneak in and take out the goons in the back, but Walters argued that she does not want it to take long. Daredevil argued stealth is the way to go. He then dove off the side of the building and broke into the blue lit hallway.
 
He threw his Billy Club at a guard and then threw another one into the wall, making his way into the hallway. He leaped off the wall and took care of the guards. When more came, he prepared to fight them, but She-Hulk crashed through the roof, landing on top of them. They then broke through the wall into the main room of the lair.
 defeat Leapfrog]]
As She-Hulk made her way to rescue Jacobson and apprehend Leapfrog, Daredevil easily fought through the guards. She-Hulk asked for Leapfrog's compliance saying they could legally argue it was an episode of mania, to which Daredevil butted in saying that an insanity defense was murky, but not a bad strategy. He then told her that he would rather angle it as trauma from undiagnosed PTSD. Leapfrog asked if he was a lawyer, but Daredevil claimed he was just a fan of legal dramas. Leapfrog said there was no fear in retreat and jumped out the window to make his escape. However, as his suit was faulty, he was unable to fly, plummeting to the ground below and injuring his legs. 

#### Night with Jennifer Walters

 ]]
 
When the police arrived, Daredevil relocated to the roof and waited for Walters to rejoin him. Walters joined him asking if he was going to give a statement to the cops, as he was an anonymous superhero. She then thanked him for his help, and he did the same, claiming to be the lead superhero in the rescue operation. She asked him when he was going to return to New York, to which he said he was going to return tomorrow. He offered to take her to dinner next time he was in town, although Walters just suggested they could skip the formalities and skip straight to sex, which he agreed to.
 kiss]]
Murdock and Walters arrived at her apartment, kissing each other. He took off his cowl while she tried to unzip his suit, which she struggled to do. As he tried to remove it, she dragged him towards her bedroom. He managed to take off his suit and placed in the floor alongside the rest of his clothing as Walters shed her outfit as well. The pair then retreated to the bedroom, where they had sex.
 
Having spent the entire night with Walters, Murdock dressed back in his suit but didn't bother to put his boots back on. Carrying his boots in his hand by the laces, he left the apartment and walked on the grass, walking past Nikki Ramos and a neighbor walking her dog, and wished the latter a good morning. Murdock then left Los Angeles and returned to Hell's Kitchen. 

#### Barbecue with the Walters Family

 ]]
 
Upon hearing that Jennifer Walters was in trouble, Murdock suited up and returned to California, arriving at the Summer Twilights retreat only to discover that he was too late and had missed the action. Walters informed Daredevil that it was good to see him again, and he responded in kind. As Walters left to deal with Emil Blonsky's arrest, Titania greeted Daredevil, prompting him to salute at her.
 ' family]]
Murdock decided to stay for a week in Los Angeles with Walters, and joined Walters at a barbecue with her family. There, her father and aunt spoke to him about his occupation and financial standing in Hell's Kitchen, with the implication of Murdock settling down with Walters, despite his insistence that he was only staying in town for the week. When Walters' cousin, Bruce Banner, made a surprise appearance and introduced everyone to his son Skaar, Murdock remarked to Walters about the eccentricity of her family. Murdock flew back to New York City and arrived at JFK International Airport, and chose not to divulge his encounter with She-Hulk to his friends. 

### Daredevil No More

#### Death of Foggy Nelson

 and Page]]
 
Later that year, Murdock, along with Foggy Nelson and Karen Page, represented a man named Benny Cafaro, who had been caught on camera stealing. One night, the trio left their law office and began walking towards Josie's Bar, where a retirement party was being held for NYPD Detective Cherry. As they walked, Murdock informed Nelson that Becky's Diner had closed, much to Nelson's chagrin, and remarked that he was surprised that Cherry would be retiring from duty.
 asks Murdock to leave with her]]
At Josie's Bar, Murdock sat with Page while Nelson sat with Assistant District Attorney Kirsten McDuffie. Page asked Murdock if he wanted to leave with her, but he informed her that the two of them doing so would be in violation of their agreement to remain friends. Page then informed Murdock that Nelson was hitting it off with McDuffie, and Murdock eavesdropped on their conversation; he then groaned when he heard Nelson refer to Nelson, Murdock & Page as "NM&P" and relayed the information to Page. As Nelson headed outside to answer a phone call from Cafaro, Murdock used his enhanced hearing to eavesdrop on the conversation and overheard Cafaro stating that he was being pursued. Murdock notified Page that something was wrong and the pair quickly left the bar to join Nelson outside.
 ]]
Nelson informed Page and Murdock that Cafaro had been receiving threats and that he had stashed Cafaro at his apartment, and that Cafaro had called him to state that someone had found him. Murdock asked Nelson why he had not told them about the threats, to which Nelson claimed that Cafaro was paranoid as he was most likely on drugs. Just then, Cafaro's screams emanated from Nelson's phone, and Murdock told Nelson to stay put while he went to go check it out. Realizing that Murdock was about to do so as Daredevil, Nelson revealed that he had kept the threats hidden from Murdock as he did not want to give Murdock another excuse to suit up. Murdock told Nelson to stay put and to try calling Cafaro again as he walked away. 
 ]]
Murdock donned a new red Daredevil Suit and used the grappling hooks on his billy clubs to zip up a building. He then landed on the fire escape in front of a church before firing another grappling hook to propel himself upwards before he then swung onto a roof. Daredevil then jumped across rooftops en route to Nelson's apartment when his hearing picked up Nelson's phone call with Cafaro, where Cafaro told Nelson that it was a trap and that someone was looking for Nelson. At the same time, Daredevil heard the sound of a gun being cocked and realized that Nelson was in immediate mortal danger. Daredevil then ran off the roof and used his billy club to swing himself back to Josie's. However, Daredevil was too late to prevent Nelson from being shot by Bullseye. As Bullseye prepared to murder Page, Daredevil swung into Bullseye and the pair crashed through the window into Josie's Bar.
 ]]
Daredevil brawled with Bullseye inside the bar, but as they fought, he failed to prevent Bullseye, who was Daredevil's old foe Benjamin Poindexter, from killing some of the other patrons. Daredevil was struck by several of Bullseye's knives, although Daredevil's armored suit prevented the knives from harming him. As Daredevil kicked Bullseye away, he focused on Nelson's slowing heartbeat and wheezing breath as Page assured him that help was on the way.
 up the stairwell]]
Daredevil and Bullseye continued their fight and went through a door, where Bullseye claimed more victims. Daredevil quickly caught one of the women that Bullseye had struck, and stayed behind with her as Bullseye climbed up a staircase. Daredevil pursued Bullseye, and used his billy clubs, which he had conjoined into one long staff, to block some of Bullseye's projectiles, although he was unable to block them all and was struck by several knives. Daredevil then focused his hearing on Nelson once more as Bullseye made his way up the stairs and onto the roof.
 ]]
Daredevil quickly attacked Bullseye and managed to rip off his mask. Daredevil punched Poindexter, although Poindexter managed to free himself from his grasp and made his way to the edge of the roof. Using his grappling wire, Daredevil snagged Poindexter and joined him on the edge of the roof, where he closed the distance and began to repeatedly strike Poindexter. As he attacked him, Daredevil's hearing remained attuned to Nelson's wheezing breath and slowing heartbeat on the street below.
 dies]]
Daredevil listened as Nelson's heartbeat came to an end and screamed as he realized that his friend was now dead. Daredevil then grabbed Poindexter and violently shook him, demanding to know why he had killed Nelson. Daredevil began to break down and pressed his head against Bullseye, who merely just laughed and patted Daredevil on the arm. In a moment of rage and with no hesitation, Daredevil swiftly shoved Poindexter off the roof.
 's death]] 
Although Daredevil intended to kill Poindexter in the moment, Poindexter survived the impact. Filled with grief at his attempt to kill someone as well as the death of his best friend, Murdock removed his helmet and began to cry. Cherry then arrived on the rooftop and was shocked to discover that Murdock was Daredevil, and a tearful Murdock did not care about protecting his identity, and just dropped his helmet onto the street below. 

#### Murdock & McDuffie

 
Due to Foggy Nelson's death as well as his attempt to kill Benjamin Poindexter, Murdock chose to retire from being Daredevil. In the immediate aftermath, he isolated himself from Karen Page for weeks, but attended Nelson's funeral, where he received a funeral card written in Braille. With Nelson, Murdock & Page officially closed, Page left New York City and relocated to San Francisco while Murdock left Hell's Kitchen and moved into a new apartment elsewhere in Manhattan. Murdock then approached Kirsten McDuffie, who wished to leave the DA's office and join private practice, and told her that she was brilliant and that he wanted to form a law firm with her, where they would take on hard cases and focus on impossible odds. McDuffie agreed and the two formed Murdock & McDuffie, a private law firm that operated out of a law office in Manhattan. To help with his cases, Murdock hired Cherry as his private investigator.

Over the next year, Murdock & McDuffie became a successful firm, and hired more attorneys to work with them. Wanting to reconnect with Page, Murdock called and left her messages, although Page did not respond. During this time, Murdock resumed monitoring Wilson Fisk's activities, and learned that Fisk's former mentee Maya Lopez had shot Fisk in the face, although Fisk survived. He also learned of Frank Castle's hideout in the city, but chose not to intervene or impede with Castle's vigilante methods. Murdock also took Page's advice and began wearing a new pair of sunglasses. 

#### Benjamin Poindexter's Sentencing

 at work]]
 
One morning in 2026, Murdock made himself coffee and stared out of his apartment window as he had a news channel in the background discussing the upcoming mayoral race. He then got dressed, turn off the television, and grabbed Foggy Nelson's funeral card from the counter before heading out. He went to the Murdock & McDuffie Law Office, where he was greeted by Kirsten McDuffie, who wanted to talk about Murdock's statement at Benjamin Poindexter's sentencing the next day. Murdock assured her that he was fine, and when she asked him whether he had heard from Karen Page, he told her that he had not. She then began to tell him that she was there to speak with him if he needed it, to which Murdock stated that he appreciated her efforts.
 
The next day, Murdock went to the New York State Supreme Court Building and delivered his statement, where he informed the courtroom that he did not believe that true justice could be dispensed because Foggy Nelson was dead. Murdock then sensed Page's arrival, which caused him to falter. As Page entered the room, Murdock apologized to Judge Maribeth Hillson and continued with his statement, adding that while justice could not be delivered, punishment could be, and urged the court to punish Poindexter to the full extent the law allowed. Murdock then took his place in the pews, and clenched his fist in victory when Hillson gave Poindexter eleven life sentences to be served consecutively.
 ]]
Murdock and Page then left the courtroom and sat on a bench together, where Page told him that San Francisco was nice. Murdock then asked her if they could have a conversation over a cup of coffee, but Page declined and stated that she was not interested. Murdock retorted that his senses allowed him to tell that she was lying, although he was unsure whether she was lying to him or to herself. Murdock demanded to know what he needed to do to be able to speak with her, adding that he had called her and left messages, and Page responded that when Nelson died, Murdock had isolated himself from her for weeks. Murdock replied that it took a while to process Nelson's death, but as the conversation became heated, Page stated that she had only returned for the sentencing hearing because of Nelson but that she was happy that Murdock seemed to be doing well.
 
Murdock uttered that he did not want to believe that the tragedy of losing Nelson had to ruin their lives, but Page informed him that it did. She then asked him what Daredevil's plans were, and Murdock notified her that he made a promise to retire and to let the system handle criminals, and that he would not allow himself to return to his former vigilante life. Page asked him if retirement helped Murdock, to which Murdock merely responded that it did not make it worse. As Page got up to leave, Murdock urged her to stay for five more minutes. Pulling out one of the horns from his suit, Page told him that she had found it at Josie's Bar and passed it onto Murdock before she left. 

#### Meeting Heather Glenn

 's voice]]
 
At night, Murdock was cooking dinner in his apartment when his hearing picked up on Wilson Fisk's voice coming out of a neighbor's television. Stunned, Murdock moved to his television and turned it on, and listened as Fisk stated that vigilantes were rampant in New York City and that the system needed to be fix. Fisk then announced that he would be running for Mayor, and Murdock put his hand to his forehead in reaction to this news. The smoke detector then went off as Murdock's dinner began to burn, which Murdock ignored as he sat down on his couch to process the news. Later, Murdock asked Cherry to look into Fisk's campaign for him.
 's defense]]
On another day, Murdock was working in the conference room of his law office, preparing for his defense of Thomas Madison, whom he referred to as a moron. Kirsten McDuffie then asked Murdock if he could meet with Doctor Heather Glenn, a therapist who was a prospective client, at Manhattanville Coffee, and Murdock agreed. As Murdock walked to the coffee shop, he overheard people gleefully discussing Fisk's mayoral campaign, which irritated him. Murdock made his way to the coffeeshop, where he ordered a cup of coffee and waited for Glenn. When she arrived, Murdock greeted her and asked her what she was looking for in legal representation, although Glenn was confused, as she believed he was seeking therapy. Murdock quickly realized that McDuffie had set the two of them up on a blind date.
 on a date]]
Murdock stated that McDuffie had wasted his time, and when Glenn protested that she had also been tricked, Murdock quickly stated that it was just annoying and apologized for being rude. Glenn remarked that McDuffie knew that she did not date lawyers as they argued all the time and their hours sucked, to which Murdock claimed that she was overgeneralizing them, causing Glenn to indicate that Murdock had just argued against her. Murdock gave a chuckle and asked Glenn to sit with him, and remarked that she came from Queens. When she questioned how he knew that, Murdock informed her that he could still hear her accent and claimed that as a blind person, he had better hearing. The pair then spoke about their lives and enjoyed their blind coffee date.
 ]]
Murdock returned to the office and confronted McDuffie, where he told her that setting him on a date while lying about it being a client meeting was unethical. She then asked him if they had fun, but Murdock lied that he did not. McDuffie stated that both Murdock and Glenn needed intimacy and that it was time for Murdock to be with someone, to which Murdock responded that he was not going to have this conversation with her. McDuffie then alerted him that Cherry was waiting for him in the conference room, and as he entered, he playfully asked McDuffie for Glenn's number so that he could apologize for McDuffie's behavior.
 with Cherry]]
Inside the conference room, Cherry informed Murdock that he had looked into Fisk as requested and that while half of the NYPD hated Fisk, the other half loved him. Murdock then asked about the campaign funds, and Cherry responded that all sources of funding were legitimate and that the money was being accredited to Vanessa Fisk's financial prowess. Murdock remarked that Fisk almost sounded sincere, but when Cherry attempted to say that Fisk was bad, Murdock interrupted him and stated that he already knew that. Murdock stated that if the city actually ended up voting for Fisk, then perhaps it deserved to have Fisk as mayor, which Cherry considered cynical. Cherry then asked Murdock if he needed him to follow up on Fisk, and Murdock began to discuss their next step before he cut himself short and told Cherry to let it go.
 ]]
That night, Murdock stood on his balcony and listened to Fisk's mayoral debate playing on a neighbor's television, where Fisk reaffirmed his stance of going after vigilantes. The next day, Murdock traveled to a NY1 office and watched as Fisk exited the building and greeted his supporters. When he noticed Murdock, Fisk approached him and remarked that it had been quite some time since their last meeting. Murdock asked Fisk if they could have a chat somewhere, and Fisk agreed. Murdock then thanked him and the pair walked to Square Diner. 

#### Diner Chat with Wilson Fisk

 ]]
 
Sitting across from each other in a booth, Murdock noted that Wilson Fisk's step was lighter, deducing that he had lost weight and gained muscle. Fisk stated that it wasn't entirely unpleasant to see Murdock again, and they briefly discussed each other's life, with Murdock being aware of Maya Lopez shooting Fisk in the face, which they both laughed off. As they continued to talk, they both reflected over how they don't visit Hell's Kitchen as much and that they had both improved in their careers.
 's intentions]]
Fisk explained his intentions for becoming mayor, but Murdock was doubtful due to Fisk's multiple attempts to kill him, although Fisk accused Murdock of the same. Murdock insisted that he never tried to kill Fisk, just incarcerate, but now was done with being Daredevil. Fisk brought up the death of Foggy Nelson, which he assured Murdock he was not involved with, as per their promise. Still unconvinced, Murdock voiced his suspicion that Fisk was using being mayor of New York to benefit his own goals.
 ]]
Fisk asked Murdock why he stopped being Daredevil, which Murdock explained was because after Nelson's death, he attempted to kill Bullseye, which crossed a line, and he no longer felt that he lost the privilege of trying to do good. Murdock then offered a warning that if Fisk reverted back to his old ways, he would personally stop him. Fisk responded with his own threat about hunting vigilantes, telling Murdock not to return as Daredevil. With the two understanding each other, Murdock got up and left. 

#### Wilson Fisk's Victory

 is the Mayor]]
 
As Murdock got ready for his date with Heather Glenn, he listened to the news report on the mayoral election, with Wilson Fisk being a strong candidate. After the dinner date, Murdock walked Glenn back to her home, where he overheard the announcement of Fisk winning the election. Murdock informed Glenn that Fisk had become mayor of New York, and she asked about his history with Fisk. Murdock answered that they had crossed paths before and that Fisk was a monster.
 share a kiss]]
Once they arrived at Glenn's apartment, she told Murdock that he could not carry the weight of the city on his shoulders, and that New York would get by without him. The two then shared a kiss, and Murdock admitted that Kirsten McDuffie was right about setting them up together. Glenn went inside her apartment, leaving Murdock alone on the streets.
 's speech]]
Murdock decided to take a walk without using his cane, where he passed through a crowd of Fisk supporters. Murdock overheard some people call out for help, but decided not to intervene. On December 31, 2026, Murdock sat at home alone and drank while he listened to a broadcasted speech from Fisk that denounced vigilantes. 

### Defending Hector Ayala

#### Meeting Hector Ayala

 ]]
 
While at the 15th Precinct Police Station for a client, Murdock overheard policer officers beating up Hector Ayala, calling him a "cop-killer." Murdock went to investigate, introducing himself to Ayala, who explained that he was only trying to help someone and that the officers never identified themselves. Using his abilities, Murdock learned that Ayala was telling the truth about not killing the officer, but there was a secret he was keeping. Murdock decided to take on Ayala as a client, promising that he was in good hands.
 to help]]
Murdock returned to his office, where he informed Kirsten McDuffie and Cherry about Ayala. McDuffie felt that a cop-killing case was not what their firm needed at the moment, but Murdock insisted that Ayala was innocent and would not survive long. Murdock convinced McDuffie to take on the case, and he tasked Cherry with tracking down the person Ayala saved, as well as digging into what Ayala was hiding. 

#### Arraignment

 in court]]
 
Murdock and Kirsten McDuffie arrived in court for Hector Ayala's arraignment, where Murdock detected that many officers of the NYPD were in attendance. Ayala was brought out, and Murdock overheard Connor Powell comment on Ayala killing his partner. McDuffie informed Murdock that Benjamin Hochberg was be prosecuting against them. Hochberg asked that Ayala be remanded without bail, which Judge Jerry Cooper granted, despite Murdock's pleas. Ayala questioned whether Murdock could help him, but Murdock assured him it would work out. 

#### White Tiger Identity

 ]]
 
Later that night, Murdock went on a dinner date with Heather Glenn, where the couple talked about travel destinations, including Eastern Europe and Belize. As they fantasized about Caribbean beaches and mai tais, Murdock got a call from Cherry. Glenn let Murdock take it, flirtatiously telling him to make it up to her later.
 in prison]]
Cherry told Murdock that Hector Ayala was the vigilante known as White Tiger as he had found his suit at his house. Murdock went to Rikers Island and confronted Ayala about his omission of his vigilantism. Ayala claimed it was not relevant as he was not wearing his suit when he rescued Nicky Torres. However, Murdock told him otherwise and informed him he was trying to pass off the scuffle in the 168th Street Station as a one-off event, instead finding out that his client was going and looking for a fight.
 to persevere]]
Ayala rebutted that someone had to protect the city, especially since Daredevil had disappeared, to which Murdock chuckled dryly. Murdock asked Ayala if he thought the latter's wife would support his activities, leaving Ayala silent. Murdock reassured Ayala, and his client apologized for his lack of transparency. Ayala revealed he was being beaten by inmates and guards, so Murdock encouraged him to be strong.
 a secret]]
Knowing Ayala's identity would not remain secret for long, Murdock revealed it to Jerry Cooper and Benjamin Hochberg so it would not interfere with the trial. Murdock argued that Ayala being White Tiger had no bearing on the case and would only bias the jury. Hochberg argued against suppressing this information, but Murdock wanted to keep the case focused on the one incident. Cooper agreed to Murdock's request, ordering that it not be entered into the trial. 

#### Talk with Cherry

 
 
Later at a waterfront, Murdock met with Cherry, who had been investigating the whereabouts of the witness who was present on the night when Ayala fought the police officers that could exonerate Murdock's client. Upon reporting that his investigation had found nothing, Cherry expressed doubts about Ayala's innocence, but Murdock insisted that Ayala was innocent. Cherry told Murdock that he knew the case involving Ayala was hitting close to home and stressed that it was dangerous because Murdock was allowing his past to cloud his judgment. Murdock chuckled and asked if Cherry was questioning his judgment because Ayala was White Tiger. Cherry replied that his concerns stemmed from Murdock's vigilante past, to which Murdock disagreed and maintained that the case remained about Ayala.
 
Frustrated, Murdock argued when Cherry began speaking hypothetically and insisted that Cherry knew he was right about Ayala's innocence. Murdock was chastised by Cherry, who reminded him that Murdock's belief in Ayala's innocence meant nothing if he could not prove it in court. Cherry affirmed that he liked and preferred Murdock's decision to move out of Hell's Kitchen and dedicate himself to being a lawyer who helps people. Remaining silent, Murdock smiled quietly as he ended his meeting with Cherry and left the harbor.
 

#### Assaulting NYPD Officers

 to his home]]
 
Deciding to take matters into his own hands, Murdock trailed Connor Powell to the officer's apartment. There, he heard Powell talk to Williams over the phone as they planned to attack Nicky Torres to prevent him from testifying at Hector Ayala's trial. Murdock quickly called Cherry and told him to get a car and wait in .
 he must leave]]
Murdock then made his way to Torres' apartment using the address he had overheard from Powell's phone call. Murdock identified himself at Torres' door and convinced him to let him in. Although Torres asked who Murdock was, the latter bluntly stated that Torres was the key witness in Ayala's defense and that he needed to leave at that moment. Murdock heard Powell and Williams' footfalls and realized they were there.
 
Murdock pushed Torres away from the door, much to the latter's protests. However, when Powell began pounding on the door, Torres became frightened and was told by Murdock to leave via the fire escape and go to Fort Tryon Park to be picked up. Murdock then unlocked the door and stepped back to greet the NYPD officers. Powell moved to search the apartment for Torres, but Murdock stood in his way.
 
Powell angrily slammed Murdock against the wall and told Williams to do a sweep of the apartment. Finding no one, Williams reported that Torres was gone. Powell menacingly asked where Torres had gone, but Murdock feigned incompetence. In response, Powell and Williams beat Murdock to the ground. However, when Williams prepared to kill Murdock with a pistol, Murdock jumped up and pushed Williams away.
 ]]
Before Williams could gather himself, Murdock broke his arm and knocked him unconscious on Torres' table. Powell charged wildly at Murdock, who used the officer's momentum against him, slamming him into the refrigerator. Murdock grabbed hold of Powell's head and banged it on the fridge once more before flipping Powell onto the ground. Catching his breath, Murdock gathered himself and roared. 

#### Struggles with Perjury

 's past]]
 
Murdock visited Hector Ayala in his cell and found him sitting in contemplation. Concerned, Murdock asked if the police had brought him food, to which Ayala replied they had not. Taking a seat, Murdock listened as Ayala spoke about Luqillo, a beach in Puerto Rico where he was from. Ayala expressed his fondness for his home, particularly the tree frogs, the coquis, and mimicked their call by whistling. Recognizing Ayala's homesickness, Murdock assured him that he would see the beach again and be reunited with his family.
 ]]
Later, while washing his bruised hands in the restroom, Murdock heard Connor Powell enter. Powell confronted him, mocking his need for glasses indoors. He attempted to intimidate Murdock by suggesting that Judge Cooper would take issue with Murdock's interference in the police investigation and remove him from the case. Unshaken by his threats, Murdock reminded Powell that witness tampering was a serious offense and that he would be fortunate if the district attorney pursued only a misdemeanor. Murdock pushed past him and stated that they would meet again in court.
 ]]
In court, Murdock sat with Kirsten McDuffie and Hector Ayala as they listened to Benjamin Hochberg question Connor Powell regarding the confrontation with Ayala. Murdock cross-examined Powell about his statement that he and his partner, Kel Shanahan, being at the platform the night of the incident and asked if he knew Nicky Torres who acted as their confidential informant. When Powel denied knowing Torress, Murdock returned to his seat where he overheard officers in the courtroom plan to prevent Torres from testifying. Realizing Torres was in danger, Murdock warned Cherry.
 ' perjury]]
Later that day, Murdock, McDuffie, and Ayala waited for Torres' arrival. Thanks to Murdock's warning, Torres had managed to make it to court safely. As Torres took the stand, Murdock began questioning him. However, to Murdock's frustration, Torres unexpectedly recanted, claiming he had not been at the station and had never seen Ayala. Murdock tried to pressure Torres into telling the truth, but was ordered to stand down by Hochberg and Cooper. With no other choice, Murdock withdrew his witness. 

#### A Desperate Defense

 
 
At the office, Murdock met with his allies, Kirsten McDuffie and Cherry, to discuss Nicky Torres' sudden reversal. As they talked, Murdock listened while McDuffie and Cherry debated whether Torres had been threatened or had never truly been on their side. When Cherry questioned their options without Torres, Murdock acknowledged that their defense was compromised, as the case had been built entirely on his testimony. With no alternatives left, Murdock concluded that their only option was to put Hector Ayala on the stand and rely on his ability to convince the jury of his innocence.
 as White Tiger]]
In the following court session, Murdock called Ayala to testify, prompting him to recount the events that had led to his arrest. Through his questioning, Murdock emphasized Ayala's consistent pattern of putting himself in danger to help others. Although McDuffie objected to the approach, Murdock revealed Ayala's secret identity as the White Tiger to the court. The disclosure disrupted the proceedings, prompting Jerry Cooper to adjourn the session and summon both Murdock and Benjamin Hochberg to his chambers.
 ]]
Inside Cooper's chambers, Murdock was scolded by the judge for convincing him to keep Ayala's vigilantism off the record, only to turn around and use it to undermine the court. Murdock defended himself, insisting that revealing Ayala's identity was not his intention, but his hands were tied after his witness was tampered with. An argument broke out between Murdock and Hochberg before Cooper stepped in. As tensions escalated between Murdock and Hochberg, Cooper intervened, making it clear that despite the situation, he would not declare a mistrial and that the case would continue. Upon leaving, Hochberg warned Murdock that the District Attorney's office would not overlook his actions.
 to retire]]
Later, in Ayala's cell, Murdock faced backlash from Ayala, who disagreed with Murdock's decision to reveal his secret. Ayala believed that the decision should have been his to make. Murdock defended his choice as a necessary act to keep Ayala out of prison. He informed Ayala that, if acquitted, continuing his role as White Tiger would no longer be possible. Despite this, Ayala reaffirmed his commitment to the identity, expressing that it was inseparable from who he was. Murdock, in turn, argued that there were other ways to serve and protect the communityones that did not involve a maskand reminded Ayala of his responsibilities to his family. He suggested that stepping away from vigilantism might not be as difficult as Ayala expected. 

#### Winning the Ayala Case

 's heroics]]
 
As the trial proceeded and due to Murdock outting Ayala's secret identity, more people came to the stand to tell their stories about White Tiger's heroism. Murdock and McDuffie presented a renewed defense for Ayala, stressing how his benevolent character proved that Ayala was not the kind of man who would kill a police officer. Murdock further stated to the jury that the community and the police themselves would agree that Ayala was a hero. After having said his defense, Murdock listened with Ayala and McDuffile as Hochberg stated his case about Ayala's action and the consequence of it. Once the trial was adjourned, Murdock sat alone in the empty court, holding the broken horn of his helmet.
 
On the final day of the trial, Murdock joined with Ayala and McDuffie as they waited for the jury's verdict. Murdock listened and breathed a sigh of relief when Ayala was declared not guilty. Victorious, Murdock and McDuffie gave Ayala a hug as they led him out to rejoin his family. As Murdock helped guided Ayala and Soledad Ayala out of the court, Murdock was questioned by news reporters about how he would respond to Mayor Wilson Fisk calling him and all vigilantes for cop killers. Murdock said nothing other than that they were grateful justice had been served.
 ]]
That night in Matt Murdock's Apartment, Murdock celebrated with Heather Glenn by cooking a dinner. Murdock recounted to Gleen about a time with his old partner where they scrapped everything together to O'Melveny's, which they only opened when they won. As he poured a drink to Gleen, Murdock teased that the first bottle lasted a very long time. Gleen inquired that Murdock must be talking about Nelson, which Murdock quietly affirmed. Murdock admitted that it was not easy to talk about his late best friend. Murdock was comforted by Gleen, as they both drank to a well-won case and in Nelson's memory. 

### Uneasy Times

#### Tragic Aftermath

 ]]
 
Murdock learned that Hector Ayala had been killed when he was out on the street patrolling as White Tiger. At the morgue, Murdock spoke with the coroner about how Ayala died and how the projectile casing has not been found. Their conversation was interrupted by the arrival of Angela Del Toro who came to see her uncle's remains. Murdock stopped Del Toro and took her aside to talk to her about Ayala. In her grief, Del Toro stated her belief that the police were responsible for killing her uncle and that justice would never be served. Murdock consoled Del Toro, stating that someone will find Ayala's killer.
 ]]
Back at his apartment, Murdock reflected on Ayala's death from the rooftop before receiving a phone call from Kirsten McDuffie who asked about Murdock's visit in the morgue and encounter with Del Toro. McDuffie informed him that an individual named Leroy Bradford was in need of legal representation. As she was preoccupied with another case, she asked Murdock to take over. Murdock agreed to meet with Bradford. 

#### Bradford Case

 ]]
 
Murdock went to the detention center to speak with Leroy Bradford about his charges for stealing from a bodega. Although Murdock attempted to persuade him to accept a plea deal due to strong evidence and Bradford's prior criminal record, Bradford insisted on his innocence and requested probation.
 ]]
Murdock decided to attempt reducing the sentence by approaching Sofija Ozola. Through negotiation, he was able to convince Ozola to lower Bradford's sentence to ten days in jail. On his way back, Murdock encountered Connor Powell. Holding him responsible for Hector Ayala's death, Murdock confronted the officer and accused him of causing pain to Ayala's family.
 ]]
Powell, angered, pressed his badge against Murdock and defended his commitment to the New York City Police Department, denying any involvement in Ayala's death. Murdock confirmed Powell was telling the truth by listening to his heartbeat. Powell then threatened to report Murdock's past actions to the Bar Association, and stating that his colleagues would not approve of Murdock's conduct. Unshaken, Murdock responded that Powell would need more people than last time and ended the encounter on bitter terms.
 's story]]
Returning to Bradford, Murdock informed him of the reduced ten-day sentence. Bradford was dissatisfied and continued to demand probation. Murdock, losing patience, reminded him that he had still committed theft and could not receive the outcome he wanted. Bradford explained how the system had failed him, leading him into a life of crime and desperation. Acknowledging Bradford's frustrations, Murdock admitted that he was right. 

#### Reunion with Frank Castle

 
 
At night, Murdock visited the site where White Tiger had been killed and began investigating the area. Using his enhanced senses, he located the missing projectile casing and discovered that it bore the skull logo associated with the Punisher. With a new lead, one tied to a former acquaintance, Murdock traveled to Knickerbocker Village, the residential complex where Castle had been hiding and operating as his base.
 ]]
Upon arriving at the hideout, Murdock was immediately attacked by Castle, who pinned Murdock against a locker, holding a hatchet. Murdock quickly deescalated the situation and reminded Castle of who he was. Castle calmed down and asked what he was doing in his hideout. Murdock asked Castle how he had been and then proceeded to inform him that White Tiger had been murdered. Murdock presented Castle with the recovered casing that featured his logo, explaining that corrupt cops were being inspired by Castle's actions, but Castle did not care. Murdock then examined Castle's arsenal and suggested that he use it to be of service.
 's choices]]
Murdock was then mocked by Castle, who sarcastically thanked him for his service as Daredevil. Murdock clarified that he could help people and save lives, so Castle responded that he had already served and it did not make his life better. Murdock called Castle a victim, which instantly angered him, as he threw his cup at Murdock, telling him that he never viewed himself as a victim. Murdock then voiced his judgement of Castle's current lifestyle, so Castle clapped back that Murdock was able to go back as Daredevil and that he wanted nothing to do with his heroics.
 confronts Murdock on his guilt]]
Sensing Castle's hostility, Murdock decided to leave. Before Murdock could exit, Castle stopped him, suspecting that Murdock did not come for his help but instead wanted his permission to return as Daredevil but was scared about what that would mean. Murdock replied that Castle was wrong, but Castle did not believe him and told Murdock that he felt guilty about not being able to save Foggy Nelson's life. Murdock claimed it had nothing to do with Nelson, so Castle tried to get him to say Nelson's name, but Murdock could not.
 ]]
Castle provoked Murdock, resulting in him hitting Castle in the face, but he immediately calmed down and apologized. Castle reiterated that all of Murdock's guilt had to do with Nelson, as he still heard his friend's voice and it was eating at him because he did nothing. As Murdock broke down, he explained that the system dealt with Bullseye, who got a life sentence. Castle brought up that Nelson did not get to have a life, and Murdock was finally able to say his name. Murdock then spoke fondly of his friend, stating that neither of them could ever measure up to him. Murdock then said goodbye to Castle and left. 

#### Devil's Call

 
 
At night, Murdock returned to his apartment and found Heather Glenn waiting for him. Glenn had been worried he might have been in an accident, but Murdock assured her that he had been in a meeting. He explained his recent struggles, including the death of Hector Ayala and the challenges of representing Leroy Bradford. Glenn offered him comfort, and the two eventually went to bed for the night.
 again]]
Later, while lying beside Glenn, Murdock remained awake, unable to get his mind off of all of the recent events and the urge to return as Daredevil which had been growing stronger. Murdock got out of bed, went outside his apartment, and headed up to the rooftop. There, Murdock opened the utility shed where he hid his Daredevil suits. Murdock retrieved his Billy Club and began training with it on the rooftop. 

#### New York Mutual Bank Robbery

 for a loan]]
 
On St. Patrick's Day, at New York Mutual Bank, Murdock met with Yusuf Khan, who was present in place of Steven Aldrich. The meeting began with a brief lighthearted exchange, during which Khan referenced Ms. Marvel, before turning to the purpose of their meeting: a loan application for Murdock & McDuffie. 
 
Khan informed Murdock that the bank would not be approving the request, as the firm was overleveraged and did not meet the bank's criteria. Although Khan acknowledged Murdock's compassion, the application was ultimately rejected. Upon leaving the bank, Murdock called Kirsten McDuffie to inform her of the rejection. While heading home, he heard that the bank was being robbed. He quickly instructed McDuffie to contact the police and ran back to the scene.
 
Inside, Murdock feigned helplessness due to his blindness and was escorted by Green and his gang to a group of hostages, including Khan. Using his enhanced senses, Murdock assessed the situation and determined that the robbers were targeting something inside the vault. Khan later confided that, in a panic, he had falsely claimed he could open the vault. Murdock advised him to maintain the lie and stall for time. When Green allowed two hostages to leave, Murdock volunteered to stay behind so that another captive's husband could be released in his place.
 at the vault]]
While Khan was escorted to the vault, Murdock learned from Johnny Santini that it contained safety deposit boxes. Murdock deceived one of the robbers by claiming he needed to use the restroom. Once inside, he used the opportunity to dispatch the escorting robber. After neutralizing the threat, he proceeded to the vault and incapacitated the robber holding Khan at gunpoint. When Green requested a status update, Murdock responded using a fake Irish accent to avoid suspicion.
 find a diamond]]
Realizing they could not return upstairs without drawing suspicion or endangering the hostages, Murdock worked on opening the vault. Using his enhanced hearing, he successfully unlocked it, which astonished Khan. Upon retrieving a key from the unconscious robber who had accompanied them, Murdock and Khan searched for the corresponding deposit box. Once they located it, they retrieved the gemstone inside. Upon hearing that the police were about to breach the bank, the two returned to the main hall.
 with the diamond]]
Back in the lobby, Green and his gang pointed their weapons at Murdock and Khan. Unfazed, Murdock informed them that the police were no longer negotiating and were preparing to enter. He also revealed that he had the diamond they were attempting to steal. When Green threatened to kill everyone, Murdock threw the jewelery pouch toward him, timing the action with the arrival of the police. Amid the chaos as the robbers were arrested, Murdock subdued another assailant while monitoring Green.
 ]]
He sensed that Green had passed the pouch to Selene, a supposed hostage who was secretly working with the Five Families. However, Murdock had already replaced the gemstone with an orange candy. With Green attempting to flee wearing a police disguise, Murdock left the bank to pursue him, disguising himself with a red mask taken from one of Greens accomplices. He caught up with Green, engaged in a fight, and ultimately subdued him, ensuring his arrest.
 make dinner plans]]
The following day, Murdock returned to New York Mutual Bank to speak with Khan. Khan reported that the police never found the diamond. As Khan began to explain that the bank was still not reconsidering the loan application, Murdock clarified that he had only come to check on Khans wellbeing. Pleased, Khan invited Murdock to a dinner with his family in New Jersey to discuss future business propositions for Murdock & McDuffie. Before leaving on good terms, Murdock discreetly placed the missing diamond in a candy bowl on Khan's desk for him to find. 

#### Reminiscent Prayers

 
 
In his apartment, Murdock sat in his bedroom and prayed while holding the funeral card for Foggy Nelson. He reflected on Nelson, Karen Page, Hector Ayala, Kingpin, and Bullseye, as well as the incidents at the attack on Josie's Bar, the robbery of New York Mutual Bank, and the attack on Nicky Torres' Apartment. Upon finishing his prayer, he was joined by Heather Glenn as they prepared for the day.
 
As Glenn was about to leave to meet her editor, she tells Murdock about a book that she was working on that discussed the psychology of vigilantes. The two spoke about what motivates individuals to wear masks. Glenn requested that Murdock introduce her to a few vigilantes, since he had represented several in court, naming Punisher and Daredevil as possible candidates. When her Uber arrived, the conversation ended. Glenn departed, while Murdock remained in the apartment, reflecting on their discussion. 

### Born Again

#### Visited by Angela Del Toro

 ]]
 
At the office, Murdock was discussing work with Kirsten McDuffie when Angela Del Toro arrived to meet with him. Murdock asked McDuffie to give them privacy before speaking with Del Toro. After some light conversation, Del Toro revealed that her uncle, had been investigating a series of disappearances in New York.
 
Murdock attempted to dissuade Del Toro from pursuing the investigation further, which only angered her. She told him to stop consoling her and insisted that he do something about the kidnappings. Del Toro explained that all the disappearances had occurred near the closed Q line, specifically Track 61. Murdock reminded her that he was a lawyer who had assisted her uncle in court, and stated that the disappearances should be handled by the police, whom Del Toro did not trust, which Murdock understood.
 he can't help]]
Frustrated, Del Toro told Murdock that he was capable of taking action and reminded him of the firm's mission to help those in need. However, Murdock ultimately told Del Toro that he was unable to help her. Disappointed, Del Toro got up to leave and shared that before Ayala was killed, he told her to not rely on anyone else for anything that could be dealt with by herself. Del Toro exited the office, leaving Murdock alone to contemplate over what he had just been told.
 's activity]]
In the evening, Murdock was privately researching Track 61, when Cherry visited to reveal that he had information, but prefaced that he was only telling Murdock as he would have found out eventually. Cherry informed Murdock that there was a serial killer active in the city. Cherry continued that Muse had already claimed at least sixty victims and used their blood to create graffiti. The information unsettled Murdock, but Cherry advised him to stay out of it and allow the police to handle the case. 

#### The Return of Daredevil

 ]]
 
In his apartment, Murdock continued researching Track 61 when he received a phone call from Soledad Ayala, who informed him that Angela Del Toro had not returned home. Murdock advised her to stay put while he sought help. He called 911, but hesitated once the call connected.
 ]]
He ended the call and chose to take matters into his own hands. Leaving the apartment and heading to the roof, he went to the utility shed where he stored his Daredevil's Suit. Donning the suit once more, Daredevil swung through New York en route to Track 61 to search for Del Toro. Upon arrival, he located Muse's Lair and immediately rushed toward it. Spotting Muse, Daredevil engaged him in fierce combat. Using his billy club to latch onto the wall, he pulled himself forward and launched a direct attack. Daredevil forced Muse back into the lair with a barrage of punches. Inside, he discovered Del Toro unconscious on a table, her blood being drained by one of Muse's machines.
 ]]
As Muse armed himself with a knife and renewed his assault, Daredevil resumed fighting. Despite the ferocity of Muse's attacks, Daredevil maintained the upper hand, using the protection of his suit and his superior skill to counter every move. When Muse attempted to flee, Daredevil subdued him by pinning him to a ladder and nearly strangling him. Hearing Del Toro's heartbeat weaken, Daredevil released Muse and quickly administered aid to revive her. Although Muse escaped during the distraction, Daredevil succeeded in saving Del Toro's life. 

#### New Life-Career Crisis

 ]]
 
Once Angela Del Toro was brought to safety, Murdock returned home the next morning to take a shower. He was joined by Heather Glenn, who noticed his bruises, but kissed her to distract her, and they shared an intimate moment.
 discuss his life]]
In their bedroom, Glenn questioned Murdock about his absence the previous night. When Murdock attempted to cover himself by claiming he had been working, but Glenn knew that was a lie. Murdock explained that he was struggling, reflecting on how his life had changed since working with Foggy Nelson and Karen Page. Murdock confessed that his new life felt fake to him. Concerned, Glenn told him that his struggle with trauma made him blind to the good in his life. Murdock assured her that he would work through his struggles.
 argue about his choice]]
At the office, Murdock was confronted by Cherry about his fight with Muse after he warned Murdock not to intervene. Murdock defended his actions, stating that sixty people were dead, and Del Toro would have been another victim had he not intervened. Murdock asked Cherry for to help track Muse, but he refused, unwilling to support his return to vigilantism. Their conversation ended on a bitter note, with Murdock arrogantly reminding Cherry how the police used to depend on Daredevil.
 about Muse]]
Later, Murdock visited Del Toro in the hospital to ask what she remembered while in Muse's lair. Del Toro commented on the police questioning her, but knowing they would not do anything, so Murdock promised that someone would step up. Del Toro informed Murdock that Muse had drawn multiple portraits of faces. Armed with his new information, Murdock decided to return to the lair to continue investigating Muse's whereabouts. 

#### Rescuing Heather Glenn

 's next target is]]
 
Daredevil returned to Muse's lair to search for clues that could lead to the serial killer. When the police who were investigating the site left, Daredevil emerged out from hiding. While examining Muses drawings, he discovered, to his shock and dismay, that they all depicted Heather Glenn. Realizing she was Muses next target, Daredevil rushed to save her. When Powell discovered him, Daredevil swiftly knocked the officer unconscious before leaving the lair.
 from Muse]]
Arriving just in time, Daredevil crashed through the window of Glenn's office and found her being strangled by Muse. He engaged in a fierce struggle with the serial killer, with the fight wreaking havoc in the office. As they battled, Daredevil heard the Anti-Vigilante Task Force approaching. The confrontation ended when Glenn managed to grab a gun and shoot Muse, killing him before losing consciousness from her injuries. Once he made sure that Glenn was stable, Daredevil left the scene before the task force arrived.
 in the hospital]]
Later, Murdock remained by Glenns side as she regained consciousness in the hospital. He consoled his girlfriend, assuring her that she was able to return home in the morning. When Glenn informed Murdock that she had to kill Muse, Murdock assured her that she had no choice. When questioned by Glenn about how he knew what she did, Murdock deflected the question. From the television, Murdock listened to a broadcasted speech from Wilson Fisk who took credit for ending the threat posed by Muse. 

#### Rough Morning

 's opinion]]
 
One morning, Thomas Madison requested a meeting at the Murdock & McDuffie Law Office, so Murdock told Heather Glenn he would be back in time for dinner. Glenn was still traumatized by the fact that she had killed Muse, explaining she finally understood how the violence between him and Daredevil transferred to her. Although Murdock objected to grouping Daredevil and Muse, Glenn shared that they were simply cowards behind masks.
 ]]
Murdock argued that Daredevil and Muse were nothing alike, noting that the former had saved Glenn, but she rebutted that she had saved herself. There was a knock at the door, which Murdock answered to find Buck Cashman standing in the entryway. Glenn recognized Cashman's voice and came to the door, asking him what he needed. Cashman gave Glenn an invitation to Wilson Fisk's Black & White Ball and commended her on behalf of the mayor for facing Muse.
 a question]]
Murdock questioned how Fisk knew Glenn was at his apartment; Cashman simply replied that Fisk cared about his citizens. Cashman bid Murdock goodbye, and when Murdock closed the door, he asked Glenn how he knew Cashman. Glenn refused to answer, explaining it had to do with her work; Murdock then deduced that Glenn had taken on Fisk as a client. Murdock warned Glenn against letting Fisk into their life.
 she is being used]]
Glenn, however, argued that as the mayor, he was in everybody's life. She opened Cashman's envelope and read the invitation, finding the event was a black tie gala benefitting the Red Hook Port Revitalization Project. Murdock advised her against going, telling Glenn that Fisk was trying to use Glenn's experience to further his agenda. When Murdock claimed that Fisk was trying to use Glenn, she suggested that Murdock go with her.
 's report]]
Murdock declined, citing that he was not invited, but Glenn read the last part of the invitation that indicated she was allowed to bring a guest. Murdock relented and exited the apartment to head to his law office. When he arrived, Kirsten McDuffie noted that he was late and remarked on his bruises. Murdock asked why Madison had called the meeting, and McDuffie explained that Cready, Glaughlin, and McKagan had claimed they were not obligated to furnish Madison's appeal filings.
 wants to meet]]
As the two made their way to the conference room, McDuffie stopped them, revealing there was something else Murdock needed to know. McDuffie informed him that Benjamin Poindexter had been moved to the general population at Rikers Island. She further explained that Poindexter has requested to speak with Murdock, much to his confusion. Before she could walk away, Murdock questioned who had had him moved, and McDuffie stated it was Fisk.
 is lying]]
The two entered the conference room, where Madison suggested that he testify. McDuffie advised against such a play, although Madison told him he liked the image of being backed by a blind man and a black woman. Murdock asked Madison what he would say if he were to take the stand, and Madison replied that he would say he was unaware of the funds being commingled. However, Murdock heard Madison's heartbeat speed up as he spoke, realizing he was lying.
 lie]]
Murdock told Madison to repeat himself, so Madison informed him that many of his loved ones were teachers, but Murdock interrupted him and called him on his lie. McDuffie attempted to intervene to no avail as Murdock ranted that Murdock & McDuffie was supposed to defend Madison but would not allow him to commit perjury. As he exited the room, he told Madison to inform them went he was ready to make a plea deal.
 
Murdock began to leave the office, but McDuffie intercepted him on his way out, asking why he was being so aggressive. She noted that he was late to the meeting and had insulted their client. Murdock once again began ranting about trying to serve justice but feeling that he was not making a real difference, citing the Hector Ayala and Leroy Bradford cases. McDuffie told Murdock she understood, but Murdock apologized and left. 

#### Visiting Josie

 and Cherry at Josie's]]
 
Murdock returned to Josie's Bar, where he met Josie who let him into the closed establishment. They were soon joined by Cherry, who had been sent by Kirsten McDuffie to speak with him. Murdock informed Cherry about Benjamin Poindexters relocation in prison and insisted that they had overlooked something in their previous investigation. Cherry warned that Murdocks growing obsession would only lead to further pain.
 was targeted]]
Their conversation was interrupted when Josie returned with a bottle of O'Melveny's, revealing that Foggy Nelson had ordered it before his death and never got to finish. Knowing that they only drank O'Melveny's after winning a case, Murdock realized that Nelson had been celebrating early for a case he was about to win, and that Poindexter had been hired to kill him. Convinced that there was a motive behind his friends murder, Murdock left the bar to pursue this new clue. 

#### Questioning Bullseye

 ]]
 
Searching for answers, Murdock went to Rikers Island to meet with Benjamin Poindexter. When Poindexter began expressing his gratitude for the meeting, Murdock immediately shut him down and demanded to know why Wilson Fisk had arranged his transfer, effectively signing his death sentence. Murdock also pressed him on if Fisk had hired him to kill Foggy Nelson. Poindexter deflected the accusations, stating he would only answer if Murdock helped secure his release, as remaining in the general population would lead to his death, and Murdock would never learn the truth.
 ]]
Murdock had no issue with Poindexter being killed, and mocked his request for release. Poindexter remarked that Murdock would have defended him in another life, stating that good men defended their worst enemies. Enraged by the request and by Nelson's murder, Murdock slammed Poindexter's head against the table multiple times, injuring him. Murdock called in the guard and claimed that Poindexter's injuries were self-inflicted. As Poindexter was dragged away, he mockingly thanked Murdock. 

#### Black & White Ball

 ]]
 
Later that night, Murdock attended Wilson Fisk's Black & White Ball, and searched for Wilson, but was stopped by Heather Glenn, who had been trying to reach him. Glenn confronted Murdock about his erratic and distant behavior. During their conversation, Murdock overheard Fisk speaking with Jack Duquesne and learned that Wilson was extorting New York's elite. Murdock argued with Glenn, insisting that Fisk had involved her to monitor him.
 and Vanessa Fisk]]
Frustrated by Glenn's refusal to believe him, he brought her along to confront Wilson, but before he could speak to him, the ballroom dance began, and Wilson took to the floor with Vanessa Fisk. Moments later, Murdock joined the dance with Glenn. While dancing, Murdock overheard Wilson taunting him about the consequences of returning to vigilantism. Sensing danger, he quietly instructed Glenn to contact Kirsten McDuffie and Cherry if anything happened.
 ]]
During the event, Buck Cashman approached Wilson to inform him of Benjamin Poindexter's escape from prison. When Murdock heard Vanessa begin to confess something to Wilson, he realized she was responsible for hiring Poindexter to assassinate Foggy Nelson. Murdock quickly swapped partners with Wilson and confronted Vanessa. Although he demanded answers, Vanessa deflected his questions and countered by asking if Glenn knew about Murdock's secret identity. 
 from Bullseye]]
Before their confrontation could escalate any further, Murdock discovered that Poindexter had arrived at the gala and positioned himself on a balcony with a rifle. When Murdock sensed Poindexter taking aim at Wilson, so he quickly moved in front of the shot and was hit in the shoulder, saving Wilson's life. Murdock was dropped to the floor, where Glenn rushed to his side as he bled out, and the Ball descended into chaos. 

### Fisk's Anti-Vigilante Campaign

#### Pursued by Kingpin

 about Foggy Nelson's case]]
 
Murdock woke up in a hospital bed in Metro-General Hospital. As he regained consciousness, he called out for Karen Page, much to the dismay of Heather Glenn, who was at his side. He then spoke with Kirsten McDuffie, who was also in the room to visit him, and asked about the case Foggy Nelson had been working on a year earlier. McDuffie informed him that Nelson had been filing a motion to dismiss a case, which led Murdock to believe it was the key to understanding the motive behind Nelsons murder. Before leaving with McDuffie, Glenn spoke with Murdock once more, during which he insisted that Wilson Fisk was responsible and dangerous, which she did not believe.
 
While recovering in the hospital, Murdock sensed the arrival of Buck Cashman. Realizing Cashman had been sent to assassinate him on Fisks orders, Murdock prepared to escape. As New York plunged into darkness due to a citywide power shutdown orchestrated by Fisk, Murdock evaded Cashman and fled the hospital. 

#### Battle at Matt Murdock's Apartment

 
 
Returning to his apartment, Murdock found Frank Castle waiting for him, much to his surprise. Castle informed him that he was there to get him to safety, as Kingpins Anti-Vigilante Task Force was on its way to kill him, a threat Murdock had already sensed. Castle demanded to know why Murdock had protected Fisk, but Murdock was unable to answer. When Murdock sensed the task force, led by Cole North, approaching, he left to put on his Daredevil's Suit.
 ]]
As the AVTF officers entered the apartment, Daredevil descended through the rooftop window and ambushed them. During the confrontation, the Punisher emerged from hiding to assist, opening fire on the officers with lethal force. Despite Daredevils pleas for him to stop, Castle continued his assault. After an intense and violent battle, both vigilantes emerged victorious.
 about Hector Ayala's death]]
Punisher found a bullet marked with his signature skull logo and informed Daredevil that they had found Hector Ayalas killer, North. Enraged, Daredevil confronted North, who expressed no remorse for his actions or fear toward Daredevil. In response, Daredevil knocked him unconscious. When Punisher urged him to kill North, Daredevil refused, stating he was not worth it. Tensions escalated when Punisher shot another defeated officer on the ground, prompting an argument over their conflicting methods. However, Daredevil cut the exchange short after hearing the sound of a grenade. 
 ]]
Both men leapt from the balcony, with Daredevil grabbing onto Punisher and using his Billy Club to swing them to safety as the apartment exploded behind them. Upon landing on a car, Daredevil and Punisher began their retreat but were soon met by Karen Page, who revealed she had called Castle to help. As they walked toward Page's car, Daredevil insisted on taking the front seat, to Punishers annoyance. 

#### Reunion with Karen Page

 ]]
 
Murdock and Frank Castle were brought to Knickerbocker Village by Karen Page. At the hideout, Page provided first aid to Murdock. As she tended to his injuries, Murdock spoke with her about her connection to Castle and her hesitation to reach out to him. While listening to their conversation, Murdock noticed the mutual attraction between them by sensing their heartbeats.
 's death]]
Page questioned Murdock about why Kingpin targeted his public persona instead of Daredevil. Murdock revealed that Vanessa Fisk had hired Bullseye to assassinate Foggy Nelson due to his legal case. Knowing that Nelsons case files were in storage, Murdock asked Page to assist him as his eyes, which she agreed to do. Before leaving the hideout, Murdock warned Castle about possible retaliation from Kingpin.
 
At the storage facility, Murdock and Page searched for the files. During the search, Murdock asked about her relationship with Castle and the apparent attraction between them, which Page dismissed as adrenaline. When she asked if he had sensed her heartbeat toward him, Murdock responded with a sad smile, suggesting it must have been adrenaline as well.
 
As they continued searching, they briefly came across a package from Nelson and Murdock before finding Nelson's files regarding Red Hook Port. They discovered that the port was exempt from federal oversight, allowing the Fisks to build a city-state where their criminal operations could be legalized. 

#### Building an Army

 
 
Daredevil and Karen Page arrived at Red Hook Port, where they found the area heavily fortified by the Anti-Vigilante Task Force. As Daredevil prepared to infiltrate the pier to confront Kingpin, he instructed Page to stay behind. However, Page persuaded him that the move was reckless, reminding him that he was still recovering from a gunshot wound inflicted by Bullseye and was severely outnumbered. She argued that Kingpin controlled the entire city, and they could not defeat him in Daredevils current condition. Acknowledging her concerns, Daredevil stated that they needed an army to stand against Kingpin.
 
Next morning, Murdock and Page regrouped at Josie's Bar, where they had a private conversation. Murdock admitted that since losing his sight and gaining heightened senses, he believed he had been given a divine purpose, to become a vigilante. He confessed that he never truly needed that purpose and that his mistake was believing he was immune to the violent impulses that led him to nearly kill Benjamin Poindexter. Murdock further admitted that he had lost himself after the death of Foggy Nelson.
 
Page comforted him, expressing her belief that Nelson had understood and accepted both the light and darkness within him. She also reaffirmed her own belief in Murdock. With renewed resolve, Murdock fully embraced his identity as Daredevil once again. Daredevil joined Page as he addressed their allies, including Angie Kim, Cherry, Josie, and several uncorrupted members of the New York City Police Department. Standing before them, Daredevil vowed to take back New York from Kingpin. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
 
 
*Enhanced Senses: Despite being blinded as a child, Murdock's remaining four senses are enhanced to a superhuman level, resulting in them becoming radar-like. He claimed to constantly feel numerous things, including balance, direction, minuscule changes in air density, vibrations, and blankets of temperature variations, that are usually imperceptible to human beings. That, combined with his acute hearing and olfactory senses, allows Murdock to evaluate his surroundings in what he describes as an "Impressionistic painting" of the world around him, which, according to him, looks like "the world on fire." His superhumanly enhanced senses grant him tremendous awareness of his surroundings on a wide range, thus makes him extremely alert to danger. While speaking at the Parker Residence, Murdock's senses picked up on a brick was hurled through the window, allowing him to catch it effortlessly. Murdock's senses, however, can be extremely overloaded at high vibrational levels which cause him extreme discomfort and disorientation, such as when he was hit with a shockwave from Danny Rand's Iron Fist punching Luke Cage and She-Hulk's thunderclap.
 
::*Enhanced Hearing: Murdock's hearing is extremely acute, he can clearly hear conversations, heartbeats and even breaths from several meters. During the Rescue of Kidnapped Women, he heard Turk Barrett pulling back the slide on his sidearm. He was able to hear and memorize the sound of James Wesley's watch ticking, and hear Claire's bones shifting as she breathed. Murdock can focus on what he hears; in a crowded courtroom with the judge speaking, Murdock heard a juror's heartbeat accelerate when James Wesley entered the room. Hearing the changes in people's heartbeats allows Murdock to predict how they feel and what actions they'll take, such as attack or run. He was also able to memorize the pattern of Wesley's watch so he could follow the latter. When forced to improvise while fighting extremely stealthy Hand ninjas, Murdock was able to effectively keep track of their movements by listening to their breaths and the sound of their swords cutting through the air. Murdock's hearing also makes him an adept thief, as he was able to skillfully bypass Benjamin Poindexter's combination safe. At the Lily Pad, Murdock was able to detect twenty-five individual heartbeats of various henchmen throughout the building.
:::*Echolocation: Murdock possesses an exceptionally advanced form of human echolocation. He is able to detect objects in his environment by sensing echoes from those objects, by actively creating and listening for sounds - for example tapping his cane, stomping of his enemies' feet, raindrops, ticking from a watch, tumbling of a safe's locks, rattling chains or even a person's heartbeat. He can interpret the sound waves reflected by nearby objects, accurately identifying their location and size. As he explained to She-Hulk, his extra sensitive hearing acts as "a spatial method" that he uses to see. He was also able to locate where in the building Maya Lopez was to tell her that she had messed up his spying.
:::*Lie Detection: Murdock's hearing is so acute, that he can tell whether people are lying or not, based on the rate of their heartbeats. He was able to tell that Karen Page was lying about her possession of files. He also could tell that Eugene Patilio was lying about his suit.
 off your lips.|Matt Murdock to Karen Page|Resurrection (Daredevil)}}
::*Enhanced Smell: His incredible olfactory senses which are even sharper than a dog allows him to detect the scent of stale cigarettes and cheap cologne three floors above him and through several walls. When he was a boy, his sense was already so acute, he could smell that an old man sitting at a bench across from him had cancer. By smelling an old cigarette, Murdock could tell that whoever smoked it previously had rotten teeth. He was even able to smell that Foggy Nelson had onions in his lunch, the current time, but two days ago. Murdock was able to find Punisher's secret hideout by following the scent of blood, left behind from an injured dog Frank Castle had rescued earlier. In court, he smelt that the wrong type of fuel, jet fuel, was used in Leapfrog's boots, despite it being many hours or even days prior.
 
::*Enhanced Taste: Murdock was able to tell that Claire Temple had ripped open some of the stitches on her back, due to tasting copper in the air from the blood of her open wound. Stick taught him how to train this sense, which allowed him to pick out every individual ingredient of the ice cream he was eating, including that the milk used came from three different dairy farms, and that the man who served him used a certain type of soil in his garden. From across his apartment, Murdock was able to taste the exact brand of alcohol off Karen Page's lips, from a drink she had a half an hour before.
 
::*Enhanced Touch: Murdock can feel the presence of those around him through vibrations, air currents, and body temperatures. He can dodge attacks and projectiles by feeling them cut through the air, creating ripples of currents only detectable by him. He locates enemies through walls and from different floors by feeling the vibrations they make from moving, such as their footsteps. While in exile and temporarily powerless, Murdock was soon able to feel the vibrations from the subway lines running deep under the church. He used these vibrations to track and scan his environment, and to regain some of his strength and balance. He also notably felt around on a piano in order to play certain notes. Murdock only sleeps on silk sheets, claiming that cotton feels like sandpaper on his skin.
:::*Thermoreception: Murdock can sense changes in heat in the environment. Murdock could even feel the heat generated from the blood spilling from the gunshot wound on Vladimir Ranskahov; to one-half of a degree, he was able to distinguish the difference in temperature.
:::*Electroreception: Murdock is able to detect electric fields, similar to a shark. When out on a mission with Elektra, Murdock was able to find a hidden room by feeling an electrical current coming from behind the wall. He could hear the electricity buzzing inside the wall and felt a stop in the current where the mechanism for unlocking the secret room was. He was also able to find Wilson Fisk's secret room in his hotel room by feeling the electrical current running beneath the floor.
::*Enhanced Balance: Murdock's sense of balance was enhanced with the rest of his auditory system, giving him excellent equilibrium, coordination, dexterity, and agility, resulting in high levels of acrobatic and gymnastic ability.
:::*Enhanced Agility: Murdock's agility is greater than even the finest athletes. He can traverse the city with speed and grace, by flipping, jumping, and swinging with his club. He can dodge bullet fire, even at near point blank range, and can completely outmaneuver most enemies, even easily dodging and evading the superhuman She-Hulk. He was also able to traverse down a multilevel parking garage in mere seconds, by jumping and flipping between the floors.
:::*Enhanced Reflexes: Murdock's reflexes are enhanced to superhuman level. Even before his training with Stick, he could effortlessly catch keys thrown to him while hearing the sound they made. He can instinctively react to oncoming blows nearly effortlessly with the use of his other senses, such as avoiding attacks with a sharp weapon at close quarters by hearing the noise of its approach, and even dodging bullets fired at close range. Because his reflexes are enhanced by his hyperawareness, Murdock is capable of reacting to objects being thrown in his direction with lightning-fast reaction time. While fighting Maya Lopez, Murdock realized that Lopez got a shotgun, allowing him to quickly dodge the bullet. He was also able to react to and catch a brick backhanded, that had been hurled from behind him.

### Abilities

 
*Master Martial Artist: and Murakami]] Murdock is an extremely skilled and formidable hand-to-hand combatant and martial artist. Despite being blind, Murdock was rigorously trained in martial arts by Stick at a young age, and excelled in it, he later continued to train himself extensively despite Stick giving up on him. Murdock eventually used his skills to fight crime as the vigilante "Daredevil", and with several years of combat experience, making him one of the most powerful and best fighters on the planet. Daredevil's fighting style incorporates , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Facebook Video: The Devil knows how to fight like hell. Hence, Daredevil could take down the criminals of Hell's Kitchen with ease, defeating professional hitman Rance, highly skilled assassin John Healy, single-handedly taking down eight Russian gangsters at once, despite having not yet fully recovered from his wounds at the time, and was even able to take down multiple cops while handcuffed. Elektra claimed that Murdock was one of the best fighters that she knew. By the time he met Stick again, Murdock rivaled his former mentor in skill, managing to keep up with him in an intense one-on-one duel and ultimately overpowering him, earning Stick's praise. Though with some difficulty, Murdock was also ultimately able to overpower Wilson Fisk and even flip him through the air during their fight. However, Daredevil would still have problems facing opponents with more combat skills and experience, such as Nobu Yoshioka, though even the latter acknowledged Daredevil as a worthy opponent. Despite his beating at Nobu's hands, he still managed to fight him on near equal grounds and ended the fight by knocking him several feet and accidentally igniting the fuel at his feet, which immolated Yoshioka. Daredevil was able to hold his own against the fierce and extremely dangerous Punisher, even gaining the upper hand against him a few times, to single-handedly take down multiple highly skilled Hand ninjas, to last longer than Elektra against Yoshioka in their final duel, and even to finally defeat the extremely skilled Hand leader himself, albeit only with considerable effort and initial failure. His skill also allowed him to overpower Danny Rand, a master martial artist in his own right. Daredevil was also able to fight both Bakuto and Murakami simultaneously and had the upper hand in the majority of the fight. Daredevil also proved to be the better fighter against Benjamin Poindexter, with the latter having to use his marksman skills to defeat him. Towards the end, he was able to fight Poindexter and Fisk almost simultaneously and defeated the latter with a series of vicious blows. Daredevil often used his enhanced senses to his advantage in combat, seen when he knocked out the lights while fighting the Dogs of Hell, putting them at a disadvantage during the fight due to their decreased visibility whereas Murdock was not. Even though Murdock usually choose to use non-lethal weapons, Murdock is skilled at using a sword in combat. During the Kidnapping of Stick, he was able to disarm and steal the katana from Elektra and held it against her throat, in order to prevent her from joining the Hand. Murdock also briefly used the katana against the Hand ninjas before being disarmed during the fight. While staking out a group of Kingpin's competitors, Daredevil easily defeated goons such as Edgar and then fought valiantly against Maya Lopez, eventually pinning her to the ground with a fallen shelf. Years later, Murdock was able to once again fight against Benjamin Poindexter before ultimately gaining the upper hand and defeating Poindexter. Stick referred to Murdock as one of the most naturally skilled fighters he ever knew. A common tactic that Murdock employs when fighting is to break the lights of whatever room he's in to put his opponent at a disadvantage.
*Staff Mastery: with his billy club]] Thanks to his early training with Stick, Murdock is extremely skilled at using staves and similar melee weapons in combat. The billy club that Melvin Potter created for him maximizes this skill by being able to easily change between different combinations of weapons, such as two batons or nunchaku. 
*Chain Mastery: Murdock is skilled at using a chain in combat, mainly using it for long range attacks. He attempted to cut Wilson Fisk with Nobu Yoshioka's kyoketsu-shoge, but the latter was wearing protective armor. He was able to use a bare chain to fight against Punisher, successfully disarming and strangling him until he passed out. He also use it to defeat dozens of the members of Dogs of Hell while they were all armed, smashing out the ceiling lights to force the bikers to fight in the darkness, and also being able to use it to disarm their weapons and strangle them to knock them out.
*Master Marksman: Because of his enhanced senses, Murdock is an extremely skilled marksman, with an increased awareness of where objects are, allowing him exceptional marksmanship with both firearms and throwing projectile weaponry with extreme accuracy. He was able to quickly knock guns out of Punisher's grasp with a hurled Billy club. Also, he was able to drop a fire extinguisher on Semyon's head several floors down, timing it perfectly and knowing when Semyon would be off the stairs and directly below it.
 
*Master Acrobat: Murdock's years of training and experience have made him an extremely skilled acrobat, gymnast, and aerialist. He could already do several agile flips as a child. He is highly skilled with parkour and free-running and able to quickly move over rooftops and climb buildings, managing to keep up with a car this way. Even when handcuffed, Daredevil performed an agile backflip, bringing his hands back in front of his torso. He also utilized his agility to successfully gain the upper hand against Stick. His agility also allowed him to gain the upper hand on Punisher during their fight. He could even able to use his supreme agility to dodge bullets even at close range. His acrobatic abilities have improved even further over the years, as during his battle with Maya Lopez, he did a flip to evade a shotgun bullet as well as other attacks. Against She-Hulk, he was able to weave his way through and pull himself up from collapsing cement in a parking lot, and then even leapt off the building over several stories, using his aerialist abilities to grab onto the lower floors and then land safely.
 
*Master Spy: Murdock is extremely skilled in moving quietly and staying hidden. His agility helps him become hard to find as he clings on to wall corners to stay hidden and hides atop of things and strikes when necessary. Prior to Maya Lopez and her allies' Attack on Kingpin's Competition, Murdock had been staking out all night without any sign of detection against him. Murdock's public image as a blind lawyer allows him to operate as Daredevil without anyone pondering that he might secretly be a vigilante. Murdock is skilled at infiltrating high security facilities, such as when he managed to gain entry into Rikers Island to interrogate Michael Kemp about Wilson Fisk under the guise that he was Foggy Nelson and had forgotten his ID card. Murdock also managed to gain access to Wilson Fisk's Presidential Hotel by impersonating a Millar & Lumming employee, only to be stopped by Benjamin Poindexter when he couldn't provide a hotel room key.
 
*Master Lawyer: ]] Murdock is a highly trained and skilled lawyer, having graduated summa cum laude from Columbia University. Samantha Reyes noted that Murdock has a reputation for being smart. Foggy Nelson claimed that had Murdock been able to put more effort into the case of Frank Castle, that they might have won it. When threatening Wilson Fisk, Murdock expressed confidence in his ability to use "every legal loophole and footnote" to keep Fisk and Vanessa Marianna from ever being able to reunite, claiming to have the ability to break him without breaking any law. While working pro bono, he successfully sued Berkowitz for $11,000,000 as compensation for Aaron James' paralysis. Murdock even managed to exonerate Peter Parker's overwhelming charges after the latter was framed for killing Mysterio. When he represented Luke Jacobson, he convinced Judge Price to deny She-Hulk's motion to compel production of the defendant's client list be rejected as it was irrelevant to the litigation, successfully defending superheroes' right to privacy and citing the repealing of the Sokovia Accords to support his case. Using his heightened sense of smell, he also got plaintiff to admit to having ignored the manufacturer's explicit instructions, absolving the defendant of all liability.
 
*Master Interrogator: Murdock is well adept in interrogation methods, being able to extract information from the criminals of Hell's Kitchen with ease, such as getting information from Felix Manning on Wilson Fisk by dangling him from the edge of a building. He has also notably interrogated Turk Barrett on more than one occasion, as well as Christian Blake.
 
*Expert Tactician: Murdock is a great strategist, he was able to formulate plans which successfully dismantle Wilson Fisk's organization and imprison Fisk, and even completely dismantle the Hand which have been established over four hundred years with the help of the Defenders. Murdock is also a skilled leader, and he has demonstrated charisma and leadership skills. Murdock was recognized as the leader of the Defenders by Stick, Jessica Jones and eventually Luke Cage and Danny Rand. He successfully led the initial assault on Midland Circle and defeated the Hand.
 
*Master Thief: During his vigilantism, he has shown impressive thievery skills in stealing items without getting caught or giving notice. As when hunting for Punisher, he ended up locating his hideout where he found many homemade smoke bombs and took one for himself to use against the second encounter. After attending a Gala with Elektra, Murdock purposely spilt his drink on Gibson to look like an accident to get him to clean up in the bathroom, and later took the key card from the latter to access the yakuza office. He managed to snatch Foggy Nelson's wallet to use as identity to get into the prison to question one of the inmates for information regarding Kingpin. Another situation where this trait came in handy was when he and Ray Nadeem broke into Benjamin Poindexter's apartment, cracked open his safe only to find it filled with weapons and disc tapes which Matt took to later listen to. Murdock was able to crack the safe of the New York Mutual Bank with his enhanced hearing, despite it having a four-turn tumbler system and more than one hundred million possible combinations. He was also able to switch out a diamond with a piece of candy before Selene or Devlin could notice.
*Physician: As a boy, Murdock would stitch his father's wounds sustained from boxing matches; although his hands were shaky and required whiskey to make his hands steadier. This would later enable him to stitch Elektra's neck wound. He was also able to restart Vladimir Ranskahov's heart. However, his skills were limited as he needed help from Claire Temple to not only help himself, but know how to help Ranshakov's wound. He was able to perform CPR and resuscitate Angela Del Toro after she was kidnapped and drained of a significant amount of blood by Muse.
 
*Multilingualism: Murdock is fluent in his native English, as well as Spanish, having studied the latter at college. This allowed him to provide translation for Elena Cardenas when Karen Page could not. As a blind person, he learned to read Braille. He also knows some French, and was able to speak a few words with Elektra.

## Equipment

### Weapons

 
*Billy Club: When Murdock asked Melvin Potter to create an armored suit for him, Potter also created a special Billy Club. It can be used as a short staff, or two individual sticks joined by a high tensile wire for grappling. It can also be split into two individual short sticks for close-quarters combat. It is kept in a holster on the suit's left thigh. Murdock later upgraded it to have a manrikigusari hidden inside of it.

### Other Equipment

 
*Armored Suit: ]] In their first fight, after being severely injured by Nobu Yoshioka, Murdock noticed Wilson Fisk's impermeable armored suit and decided to take Claire Temple's advice to get some armor of his own. He located Melvin Potter, who made Fisk's suit and persuaded him to make a red and black suit with a facemask and helmet resembling the Christian Devil, leading to the Daredevil name. This suit is highly durable, allowing him to be nearly unfazed by an opponent's attacks and recover more quickly from being hit, such as being hit in the head with a metal pipe or slammed into a wall by Fisk. It notably allowed Daredevil to survive unscathed from battling a resurrected Yoshioka with the same Kyoketsu-shoge hook that badly wounded him when he wore his simpler vigilante suit. After his first protective helmet got cracked by a close-range bullet from Punisher, Daredevil had Potter make him a new upgraded version. Due to the damages it suffered in the destruction of Midland Circle, Murdock discarded this suit. Murdock eventually acquired a third suit from Luke Jacobson, reminiscent of the earlier version but colored golden yellow. Murdock later started using a new suit with a brighter red color scheme that resembled his first suit.

### Former Equipment

 
*Vigilante Suit: Murdock bought a black suit with red stitching online to wear in his vigilante activities. He also wore a black mask over his head, eyes, and nose, leaving only his mouth uncovered. This suit also had padding which he wore underneath the suit so that the beatings would not hurt as much, but they did not stop him from being seriously injured. He would ultimately discard this suit in favor of a much more durable armored one. Once his senses started to come back, Murdock equipped himself a new black suit at Saint Agnes Orphanage and returned to his vigilante activities, wearing a black mask with white stitching cloth underneath.
 
*Wooden Sticks: ]] At a young age, Murdock was trained to be an expert stick fighter by Stick, but he stopped using the weapons after Stick left, preferring to fight unarmed. He began using them again at Stick's insistence when his mentor returned to New York City. However, he discarded them after Melvin Potter made him a more advanced Billy Club.
 
*Muay Thai Ropes: After his return to vigilantism, while wearing his vigilante suit again, Murdock lost a fight against Benjamin Poindexter. While preparing to kill the Kingpin and possibly confront the fake Daredevil, he started wearing Muay Thai ropes, as he believed that this allowed him to do more damage than boxing wraps.
*Kyoketsu-Shoge: After defeating Nobu Yoshioka in a duel Daredevil was confronted by Wilson Fisk and the two of them fought. Daredevil was no match for Fisk due to the wounds he sustained from fighting Yoshioka. During the fight, he tried to cut Fisk using Yoshioka's Kyoketsu-Shoge but Fisk was wearing body armor that protected him. Fisk then disarmed Daredevil and beat him into submission.
* : During the Infiltration into Madame Gao's Warehouse after defeating all the guards and accidentally starting a fire Murdock took this gun from one of the guards and shot at the sprinklers. The water destroyed the drugs in the warehouse and helped combat the fire. With the building burning down, Murdock ordered one of the guards to help the blind workers escape and discarded the weapon on his way out.
 
* : ]] Punisher attached this revolver to Murdock's wrist with duct tape when he kidnapped him and chained him to a chimney on the roof of Jerry's building, ordering him to either shoot and kill him or Grotto and making sure to chamber it with only one bullet. Murdock made his own decision and, using his heightened senses to detect the weakest location of his restraints, fired the only round and broke free. After he incapacitated Punisher, he attempted to leave Jerry's building but was met by the Dogs of Hell. He caught one member by surprise and threatened to shoot him to ward off the rest of the gangsters, but when they discovered he was empty, he proceeded to beat them up, sometimes using the revolver as a blunt weapon.
*Metal Chains: Daredevil utilized the chains used to restrain him by Punisher as a melee weapon, first using it to prevent Punisher from shooting the bikes of Dogs of Hell gang members, but failing, which caused the gangsters go after Punisher. Daredevil then used the chains to disarm Punisher and strangle him, making him faint. In the ensuing battle between him and the gangsters, he frequently used the chains to disarm them of their guns and strangle them, and also breaking hanging lamps in order to dim the lights.
* : Daredevil stole this weapon from Elektra and held it against her throat in order to prevent her from joining the Hand after she briefly considered joining them during the Kidnapping of Stick. Daredevil convinced Elektra to not join them and to save Stick. Daredevil briefly used the katana against the Hand ninjas before losing it in the fight.

## Facilities

*Jack Murdock's House: While growing up within New York City, Murdock had lived with his father, Jack Murdock in a small and rundown house, where Murdock had helped his father with the injuries he gained following his boxing matches before being blinded. However, when his father had been murdered by Roscoe Sweeney following his fight against Carl Creel, Murdock was forced to move out of the House.
*Saint Agnes Orphanage: Following his father's death, Murdock was sent to live with nuns, where he had struggled with his enhanced senses from his blinding. Here Murdock first met Stick who promised to take him away and help Murdock understand his abilities.
*Clinton Church: Murdock visited the local cathedral associated with Saint Agnes Orphanage in order to receive absolution for his sins and spiritual advice from Paul Lantom. His visits grew much more frequently after the supposed death of Elektra.
 
*Columbia University: Having decided that he would become a lawyer, Murdock secured his place at the university where he met his roommate Foggy Nelson before starting a love affair with Elektra. Murdock and Nelson both came out of the University with their degrees and agreed to start a law firm together.
*Landman and Zack Building: With their degrees, Murdock and Nelson got jobs working at Landman and Zack, however, Murdock struggled to deal with their effects and suggested to Nelson that they leave the building and the job behind to start their own law firm as they had dreamed of.
*Fogwell's Gym: ]] Throughout his life, Murdock would often visit Fogwell's Gym for its value as a training ground and as a relic of his father's boxing career. After leaving Saint Agnes' Orphanage, Murdock took refuge in the gym for several days and plotted to kill Wilson Fisk at that time.
 
*Apartment: ]] Due to his blindness, Murdock was able to get a good deal with buying a large apartment in the center of New York City. It was next to a large billboard that shone the light directly into the apartment, keeping people awake. Murdock allowed Karen Page to stay at his apartment when she feared she would soon be attacked again by Union Allied Construction. Following his near-fatal beating by Nobu Yoshioka and Wilson Fisk, Murdock made it back to his apartment where he was discovered by Foggy Nelson. Murdock later had let Elektra recover from her injuries there when she had been attacked by the Hand. Murdock's apartment was later ambushed by the Hand, which resulted in Murdock being badly wounded before Elektra saved his life. Murdock later moved into a new apartment outside of Hell's Kitchen with a view of the city.
*Nelson and Murdock Law Office: As they began their work with Nelson and Murdock, the two friends rented an office where Murdock allowed Nelson to take the room which had a view over New York. From here they worked on several of their cases, including Elena Cardenas and Frank Castle until they eventually decided to end their law firm and go their separate ways, locking the door on their offices.
*Nelson, Murdock & Page Law Office: When Murdock and his friends Foggy Nelson and Karen Page created a joint law firm, they rented a new law office as well. However, they stopped going to the office when the law firm was disbanded due to Nelson's death.
 
*Murdock & McDuffie Law Office: After the death of Foggy Nelson, Murdock and Kirsten McDuffie rented an office that allowed them to open their law firm in.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Grandmother
*Jack Murdock  - Father
*Maggie Grace - Mother

### Allies

*Paul Lantom  - Friend
*Dora
*Chaste
**Stick  - Former Mentor
**Quinn 
*Elektra - Ex-Girlfriend and Temporary Enemy
*Nelson, Murdock & Page
**Foggy Nelson  - Best Friend and Partner
*Fran - Former Neighbor
*New York City Police Department - Temporary Enemies
**Strieber
**Brett Mahoney
**Misty Knight
**Plainsclothes Cop 
**Rodriguez
*Bess Mahoney
*Santino
*Claire Temple - Friend and Former Love Interest
*Elena Cardenas  - Client and Friend
*Ed - Client
*New York Bulletin
**Mitchell Ellison
**Ben Urich  - Friend
*Vladimir Ranskahov  - Former Enemy and Situational Ally
*Melvin Potter - Temporary Enemy
*Doris Urich
*Silvio
*Carl Hoffman - Former Enemy, Situational Ally and Client
*Michael Kemp - Client
*Zuly Almeida - Client
*Jacinto - Client
*Marino - Client
*Maxwell - Client
*Elliot Grote/Grotto  - Client
*Jerry 
*Blake Tower
*Frank Castle/Punisher - Former Enemy and Client
*Cynthia Batzer
*Gregory Tepper 
*Andrew Lee
*Stan Gibson 
*Gallagher
*Samantha Reyes  - Former Enemy and Situational Ally
*Aaron James - Client
*Defenders - Former Teammates and Friends
**Jessica Jones - Former Client
**Luke Cage
**Danny Rand/Iron Fist - Savior and Temporary Enemy
*Lexi Raymond
*Trish Walker
*Colleen Wing
*Malcolm Ducasse
*Anne
*Rostam Kazemi
*Neda Kazemi
*Malik Saini
*New York City Department of Correction
**Franklin Battle 
*Albanian Syndicate - Situational Allies
**Vic Jusufi
*Edmund
*Jasper Evans  - Situational Ally
*Betsy Beatty
*Ray Nadeem  - Former Enemy and Client
*Shelby
*Seema Nadeem
*Sami Nadeem
*Edward Nelson
*Anna Nelson
*Theo Nelson
*Timmy Nelson
*Marci Stahl
*Peter Parker/Spider-Man - Client
*May Parker 
*Stark Industries
**Happy Hogan - Client
*Luke Jacobson - Tailor and Client
*Price
*Jennifer Walters/She-Hulk - Former Enemy, Friend and One-Night Stand
*Goodman, Lieber, Kurtzberg & Holliway
**Nikki Ramos
*Pedro
*Mary MacPherran/Titania
*Morris Walters
*Elaine Walters
*Melanie
*Tucker
*Ched
*Rebecca Walters
*Bruce Banner/Hulk
*Skaar
*Murdock & McDuffie
**Kirsten McDuffie - Friend and Partner
*Maribeth Hillson
*Heather Glenn - Ex-Girlfriend
*Hector Ayala/White Tiger  - Client and Friend
*Jerry Cooper
*Nicky Torres
*Forrest Tam
*Michael Burgos
*Gianna Moreno
*Angela Del Toro
*Leroy Bradford - Client
*Sofija Ozola - Friend
*Jenna Jumper
*New York Mutual Bank
**Yusuf Khan - Friend
**Meghan Checca
**Theo Blasko
**AJ
*Belinda
*Keith
*Johnny Santini
*Soledad Ayala
*Daredevil's Army
**Karen Page - Close Friend, Ex-Girlfriend, Savior and Former Partner
**Josie
**Cherry - Friend
**Angie Kim
 

### Enemies

*Roscoe Sweeney
*Russian Mafia
**Anatoly Ranskahov 
**Semyon 
**Sergei 
**Dmitry
**Mikhail
**Piotr 
**Aslan
**Viktor
*Turk Barrett
*Christian Blake 
*Rance 
*John Healy  - Former Client
*Wilson Fisk/Kingpin - Attempted Killer and Attempted Victim
*Oscar
*Corbin
*Sullivan  - Situational Enemy
*Leland Owlsley 
*Hand
**Alexandra Reid 
**Madame Gao
**Sowande 
**Bakuto 
**Murakami
**Nobu Yoshioka  - Attempted Killer and Victim
**Black Sky 
**Young Hand Ninja  - Attempted Killer
**Hirochi 
**Tyler
**Specialist
*Junkie Jake 
*James Wesley  - Attempted Killer
*Francis
*Landman and Zack
**Parish Landman - Former Employer
*Almeida
*Alpha
*Dogs of Hell
**Jimmy the Bear
*Kitchen Irish
**Finn Cooley 
**Rory
*Thompson
*Philip Cabroni
*Christopher Roth - Rival
*Ray Schoonover/Blacksmith  - Attempted Killer
*Donovan and Partners
**Benjamin Donovan
*Gosnell 
*Berkowitz
*FBI
**Tammy Hattley
**Mockta 
**Ramsey
**Arinori 
**Johnson
**O'Connor
*Benjamin Poindexter/Bullseye - Impersonator, Attempted Killer, and Attempted Victim
*Oscar - Former Ally
*Felix Manning
*Vanessa Fisk
*Maya Lopez
*Davy
*Edgar
*United States Department of Damage Control
**P. Cleary
*Leap Squad
**Eugene Patilio/Leapfrog
*Benjamin Hochberg
*Williams - Attempted Killer
*Devlin
*Red
*Yellow
*Blue
*Purple
*Selene
*Bastian Cooper/Muse 
*Anti-Vigilante Task Force
**Connor Powell - Attempted Killer
**Cole North
*Thomas Madison - Client
*Buck Cashman - Attempted Killer
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for Daredevil
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* (indirectly mentioned) 
* 
* 
* DODC Office Set Photo 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
* 
* (unreleased) 
* (unreleased) 
* (unreleased) 
* (unreleased) 
* (unreleased) 
* (unreleased) 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Daredevil had a long and complicated relationship with Black Widow.
*Murdock is 5'10" and weighs 175 lbs. Matt Murdock Missing Poster 
*Murdock likes beef ravioli from Nonna's, and sandwiches from Sal, Kris & Charlie's. He takes his coffee with oat milk. 
*Murdock enjoys listening to records. He is a fan of and . 
*When Murdock initially refused to tell Claire Temple his real name, she briefly referred to him as "Mike", after one of her ex-boyfriends. In the comics, Mike Murdock was a name of Matt's fake twin brother that he used to keep his identity secret.
*Murdock's black vigilante suit takes inspiration from and 's 1993 limited series Daredevil: The Man Without Fear. The black suit was itself inspired by the Daredevil costume worn by actor , who portrayed Murdock in the television film .
*The chemicals which blinded Murdock was not identified, but the barrels reveal it to be "TYP A" with the serial number "0464XXXX"; this denotes April 1964, when Daredevil #1 was first published.
*A set for the Attack on Greenwich Village in Avengers: Infinity War includes a New York Bulletin newspaper titled "Crime Floods The Streets" with Daredevil appearing on the front page.
*Daredevil is the second Marvel Cinematic Universe character introduced in the non-Marvel Studios' Marvel Television shows to subsequently appear in a Marvel Studios production, being preceded by Wilson Fisk/Kingpin in Hawkeye, who reprised the role the same week Spider-Man: No Way Home released.

## Behind the Scenes

*Daredevil in the Marvel Cinematic Universe is the third live-action incarnation of the character, following an incarnation portrayed by and another by .
*Chris Brewster, Justin Eaton, Niko Stavropolous and Jason Mello were stunt doubles for Charlie Cox and Aidan Kennedy and Devin Sanchez were stunt doubles for Skylar Gaertner in the role of Daredevil.
*Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely briefly considered having Daredevil and Luke Cage appear in Avengers: Infinity War but abandoned the ideas, deeming it impossible to keep up with the Netflix showrunners. Avengers: Infinity War screenwriters considered using Luke Cage and the Marvel Netflix heroes 
*Commenting on Daredevil's return in Spider-Man: No Way Home and She-Hulk: Attorney at Law, Charlie Cox stated: "It should be and it is always the same character. The difference is just like with people, we morph and change and are very different based on what's going on in our lives. The Matt Murdock from the Netflix show, that world and what was going on for Matt meant that most of the time we were living with a man who had a huge amount of pressure and strain and tonally the show was very dark and gritty and heavy. I don't know what the new show will be like, but when I came over to do Spider-Man and She-Hulk, the tone is much more lighthearted and tongue in cheek and fun and witty and full of levity, so the hope was that Matt is able to fit into that world and participate in it without it being a different character, a different person." Charlie Cox talks putting Daredevil's cowl back on for She-Hulk and upcoming Disney+ series 
*According to Brad Winderbaum, Daredevil is the symbol of vigilantism in New York City. How Marvel's Echo Will Set Up Daredevil: Born Again (comicbook.com) 

## References

 
 
 }}
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 

es:Matthew Murdock
fr:Matt Murdock
pl:Matthew Murdock
pt-br:Demolidor
ru:
zh:

 

Category:Characters
Category:Spider-Man: No Way Home Characters
Category:Daredevil (TV series) Characters
Category:The Defenders Characters
Category:She-Hulk: Attorney at Law Characters
Category:Echo (TV series) Characters
Category:Daredevil: Born Again Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Males
Category:Brown Hair
Category:Brown Eyes
Category:Lawyers
Category:Musicians
Category:Vigilantes
Category:Saint Agnes Orphanage Interns
Category:Xavier High School Students
Category:Columbia University Students
Category:Landman and Zack Employees
Category:Nelson and Murdock Employees
Category:Defenders Members
Category:Nelson, Murdock & Page Employees
Category:Murdock & McDuffie Leaders
Category:Daredevil's Army Leaders
Category:Enhanced Individuals
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Metro-General Hospital Patients