|alias = 
|organizational = Foxtrot Nick Furry 100% Red-Blooded Earth Man One-Eyed Man Son of a Bitch The Most Dangerous Man 
|undercover = Jacob Veech Johannes Kerhonen Isaac Boateng Isaac Boateng's ID }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = 
|gender = Male
|DOB = July 4, 1950 Nick Fury's S.H.I.E.L.D. Badge 
|DOD = May 2018 (resurrected in October 2023) 
|snapped = Yes 
|clearance = Level 10 (formerly) 
|IDno = A 07458876
|title = (formerly) CIA Agent (formerly) Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. (formerly) Director of S.H.I.E.L.D. (formerly) Director of S.A.B.E.R.
|affiliation = (formerly) (formerly) (formerly) 
* (formerly) 
* (formerly) 
Nick Fury's Crew (formerly) 
|movie = Iron Man 2 Thor (post-credits scene) Captain America: The First Avenger The Avengers Captain America: The Winter Soldier Avengers: Age of Ultron Avengers: Infinity War (post-credits scene) Captain Marvel Avengers: Endgame Spider-Man: Far From Home (post-credits scene) The Marvels}}
|tv series = Secret Invasion (6 episodes) }}
|oneshot = }}
|docuseries = Legends *The Avengers Initiative *Nick Fury
|comic = Thor: The Dark World Prelude Captain America: The First Avenger Adaptation The Avengers Captain America: Civil War Prelude Captain Marvel Prelude }}
|book = Captain Marvel }}
|actor = Samuel L. Jackson Simon Smith (disguised) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Director Nicholas Joseph "Nick" Fury is an American spy, the former Director of S.H.I.E.L.D., and the founder of the Avengers. Fury began his career of serving his nation within the United States Army, rising to the rank of Colonel before becoming a CIA operative during the Cold War. Fury then joined S.H.I.E.L.D., where he recruited and trained Phil Coulson and John Garrett. In 1995, Fury met Vers and the Skrull General Talos and helped Vers uncover her human heritage as Carol Danvers. The trio fought the Starforce, led by Yon-Rogg, who were targeting Skrull refugees. Fury took a liking to Goose, although she scratched and permanently blinded Fury's left eye. While Danvers then left Earth in order to find a new home for the Skrulls, Fury would summon a team of Skrulls to Earth to secretly aid him with his spy career in exchange for helping them find a home.

Promoted to Director of S.H.I.E.L.D. by Alexander Pierce, Fury focused his efforts over the next fifteen years to organize the Avengers Initiative, intending to bring together powerful individuals to protect Earth from extraterrestrial threats. Despite reluctance from World Security Council, Fury recruited Iron Man and Captain America. With the Avengers ready, Fury called on them when Earth was invaded by Loki, who brainwashed an army and stole the Tesseract. Fury led the Avengers' hunt for Loki, as they attempted to learn what Loki's plan was and who he had been working for. This came to a head following Phil Coulson's death, as Loki was tracked to New York City. There, the Avengers engaged Loki and his Chitauri army, with Fury keeping the World Security Council from nuking the city before Loki was defeated and the Avengers were disassembled.

Following the Avengers' victory, Fury recruited Captain America as a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, while Fury worked on Project Insight, as a means of eliminating people an algorithm determined to be future threats. However, when Fury began to suspect that something was wrong with Project Insight, he then found himself targeted by Winter Soldier, forcing Fury to fake his own death and go into hiding. With limited people he could trust, Fury turned to Captain America along with Black Widow, Falcon and Maria Hill to lead the fight, as he soon discovered that Hydra had secretly managed to infiltrate S.H.I.E.L.D. and Alexander Pierce was their leader. Fury and his allies managed to stop Project Insight before it could begin, by destroying it and killing Pierce.

Afterwards, Fury chose to go into hiding to continue hunting down the remaining Hydra cells. Fury then assisted the now resurrected Phil Coulson in defeating John Garrett while also stopping his plans for Project Deathlok. Following this, Fury chose to promote Coulson to Director of S.H.I.E.L.D., telling him to rebuild it from the ground up. Fury later aided the Avengers during the Ultron Offensive, serving as support during the Battle of Sokovia. There, he commanded the rebuilt Helicarrier, which Coulson's new S.H.I.E.L.D. worked on.

In 2018, now operating underground with a hand-picked crew, Fury was one of the trillions of victims in the Snap but had managed to send a distress signal to Captain Marvel before his death. In 2023, Fury was resurrected by Hulk in the Blip and attended Tony Stark's funeral alongside the other Avengers after he sacrificed his life in the Battle of Earth. Fury was then made aware of Peter Parker's identity as Spider-Man and was tasked with delivering the E.D.I.T.H. glasses to him. Fury then left Earth to join S.A.B.E.R. and was placed in charge of their space station before he tasked Talos and Soren to impersonate himself and Maria Hill respectively on Earth and to deliver the glasses to Spider-Man on his behalf.

Fury returned to Earth in 2026 to reunite with Hill and Talos as they dealt with the increasing threat of Gravik and his Skrull Resistance, who were enraged by Fury's failed promises to them, and sought to wipe out the human race and take Earth as their new home. With his confidence low, Fury would struggle to handle Gravik's threats, as he would lose Hill and Talos in the fight, and lose his position when he was fired by Raava, who had been disguised as James Rhodes. While also dealing with his wife, Varra's possible betrayal, Fury would eventually save President Ritson's life, while sending G'iah to enhance herself with the Harvest and defeat Gravik. With the conflict over, Fury returned to S.A.B.E.R. with Varra coming with him.

Fury would soon instruct S.A.B.E.R. to investigate reports of anomalies from the Universal Neural Teleportation Network. This included Monica Rambeau, who would suddenly swap places with teenager Kamala Khan. Fury and Rambeau would soon learn that the light-based powers shared by Danvers, Rambeau, and Khan had become entangled, resulting in them switching places whenever they used their powers at the same time. Fury and S.A.B.E.R. would assist the trio in their campaign to defeat Dar-Benn, a Kree Accuser who had begun attacking planets that Danvers had a personal connection with and stealing their resources.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### Childhood in Alabama

 
Nicholas Joseph Fury was born in Huntsville, Alabama on July 4, 1950 to Jack and Katherine Fury. All throughout his childhood, Fury had insisted on only ever being addressed by his surname, even making his mother call him Fury, which he had continued to insist for the rest of his life. During his childhood, Fury had his first pet, a cat named Mr. Snoofers. He met Suzie, and the two regularly played doctor with each other behind Jackson's barn. At this time, Fury and his mother often traveled by train from Alabama to Detroit. Due to racial segregation laws at the time, they were forced to travel in a car allocated for people of color. During these journeys, Fury and his mother would eat food that they brought with them in a shoebox and play games invented by his mother, including one called "Tell me something I don't know." During one such game, Katherine asked Fury to tell him about Suzie. Not wanting to reveal his and Suzie's relationship, he lied about having seen a polka-dotted bullfrog with her. 

### Military & Espionage Career

#### United States Army

 
Once he finished high school, Fury joined the United States Army, working his way up the ranks as a soldier until being promoted to Colonel. Afterwards, he left the military and joined the CIA to pursue a career in espionage. 

#### Cold War

 
By the 1970s, Fury had a lot of action in Soviet territory, particularly Belfast, Belgrade, Budapest and Bucharest, constantly moving around the world due to the ongoing conflict of the Cold War. Fury chose to be dispatched in those locations, due to them all starting with the letter 'B' and that he could make them rhyme when he would mention them in passing. He also helped keep tensions minimal by often going to bars and ordering drink for the locals. 

#### Joining S.H.I.E.L.D.

 
Fury joined S.H.I.E.L.D. by the 1980s and was working under R. Keller's command by 1988. For six years since 1989, he had been working a desk job in a S.H.I.E.L.D. office, attempting to locate and hunt down future enemies. By 1995, he had Level 3 S.H.I.E.L.D. clearance. Over time, Fury oversaw the training of Phil Coulson and John Garrett as their Supervising Officer. 
 ]]
Eventually, Fury became Deputy Chief of a S.H.I.E.L.D. station in Bogotá, working under Alexander Pierce's command. When the took several political officers hostage, including Pierce's daughter, Fury proposed a plan to get the hostages out, but Pierce insisted on negotiating with the rebels. However, Fury disobeyed his orders and got the hostages out. 

### Kree-Skrull War

#### Encountering Extraterrestrials

 ]]
 ? Witnesses say she was dressed for laser tag.|Nick Fury to Vers|Captain Marvel (film)}}
In June 1995, Fury and a group of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents received a call about a mysterious woman who crashed into a store in Los Angeles. The following morning, Fury interrogated the suspect. He proceeded to ask the woman if she was aware of someone who had fallen into a Blockbuster.
 ]]
Vers then claimed that she was from the Kree planet Hala and warned Fury that the Skrulls had infiltrated his planet. As an incredulous Fury asked for her credentials, however, a Skrull started shooting at them. Vers started chasing after the Skrull, while Fury alerted the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents to chase after Vers and the Skrull.
 " is an impostor]]
The chase led him to follow a metro transit train across Los Angeles alongside "Phil Coulson," where Vers was in pursuit of the Skrull. Fury and Coulson both kept tabs on Vers, watching as she fought the Skrull atop the train, and narrowly avoiding falling debris on several occasions. During the chase, however, Fury received a message from Coulson, who claimed he was stranded at the shopping complex while doing damage control.
 identification]]
Fury realized that Vers was telling the truth, and deduced that the Coulson riding shotgun next to him was a Skrull impostor. The Skrull, now aware that Fury had uncovered his deception, attempted to choke him to cover his infiltration. During the scuffle, Fury hard turned the car they were riding in to be t-boned by an incoming bus, which killed the Skrull on impact. Upon seeing the alien's true form, Fury quickly covered the Skrull's body and marked the scene of the accident under S.H.I.E.L.D. investigation and analysis. 

#### Examining an Alien

 by "Keller"]]
 
Following his encounter with the Skrulls, Fury marked the incident under S.H.I.E.L.D. investigation, and contacted R. Keller, unaware that at this point Talos had impersonated him. Fury was summoned to the S.H.I.E.L.D. Field Office by 'Keller,' and as they observed the corpse of the dead Skrull, Fury informed 'Keller' of Vers whom he had encountered earlier, and was authorized to work undercover with her. 

#### Interrogating Vers

 about his past]]
 
Fury tracked down Vers after learning she stole a motorcycle, and followed her to Pancho's Bar. Once he arrived at Pancho's Bar, Fury confronted Vers and proved that he was not a Skrull by answering questions about his past, including his small quirks, the name of his first pet, and details about his military career; memories that a Skrull couldn't fabricate. 

#### Working Alongside Vers

 ]]
 
To confirm Vers' suspicions, with the intent to corner her into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody, Fury drove her to the Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility. En route, Vers explained to Fury the history of the ongoing Kree-Skrull War, and the Skrulls' interest in Wendy Lawson's Light-Speed Engine. Upon arrival at the base, Fury explained to Vers when she learned of his full name that he is only referred to by his surname.
 ' of Vers' location]]
Arriving inside the facility, Fury and Vers were told to wait in a locked room. While they waited for security to give them clearance inside, however, an impatient Fury used a piece of tape and placed it on his badge to take the fingerprint of an official with security clearance who had touched his badge, to give them access to the building. As Vers headed to the file room, Fury secretly contacted S.H.I.E.L.D. and alerted 'Keller' of Vers' location inside the facility through his pager, dismissing the contact as him simply trying to contact his mother.
 's files]]
As they were leaving, Fury encountered Goose, and began petting her, before Vers told Fury to keep moving. While inside the facility's archives, Fury and Vers discovered information about Lawson and found a notebook of Kree glyphs inside her files. When Vers realized her life on Earth as Carol Danvers, Fury explained that both Lawson and Danvers were supposedly killed in a faulty test flight of an Asis. 

#### Ambushed at the Facility

 is a Skrull]]
 
While Vers continued reading the file, Fury went to the entrance of the facility to meet the several incoming S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, including 'Keller'. When Fury and 'Keller' boarded an elevator down to the archives to capture Vers, 'Keller' called Fury by his first name, Nicholas. This caused Fury to become suspicious, since most people who know Fury, including the real Keller, never call him by his first name.
 ]]
This caused Fury to assume that Keller was replaced by a Skrull. Fury then described a plan of action and tested Talos by asking if he remembers a strategy during a fictitious mission that he supposedly did with the real Keller, but Talos didn’t notice and agreed with him, making Fury confident that he was a Skrull. Seeing that S.H.I.E.L.D. was being infiltrated by the Skrulls, Fury deceived Talos and decided to go rogue with Vers.
 ]]
When Fury left, however, Talos realized that Fury was already suspicious, and sent several S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, including Phil Coulson and Whitcher, to capture Fury dead or alive. Talos manages to find Fury and hold him at gunpoint, but Fury disarmed him, leading to a fight. Despite putting up a good fight, Fury was eventually overpowered and knocked down by Talos's might.
 ]]
As Talos was standing over him, he was stunned by Vers' photon blast, who had decided to come back and rescue Fury. When more agents arrived, Vers blasted a hole through the ceiling to the next floor so that she and Fury could get through it and escape. As the two were making their escape, Fury was scolded by Vers for betraying her for calling in S.H.I.E.L.D., to which Fury then apologized for.
 are halted by Phil Coulson]]
When they made their way to the stairwell, they were halted by Coulson, who held them at gunpoint. Coulson decided to help them by misdirecting the other S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Once they were temporarily safe, Fury handed over his Transmitter Pager to Vers so that he wouldn’t use it again. The two then made their way to the facility's hangar, where they found a Quadjet.
 escape on board a Quadjet]]
When they sat in the cockpit, Fury asked Vers if she knew how to fly the aircraft, which she was fairly certain of. Vers then proceeded to fly the aircraft out of the facility. Shortly after escaping, the two realized that Goose had stowed away in the Quadjet as well. Once they were in the clear zone, Fury was shown a photo of Vers that she had found. They then deduced that she was the pilot that went down with "Lawson" and somehow arrived on Hala.
 ]]
Fury was then informed by Vers that they needed to find her old friend, Maria Rambeau, so Fury instructed her on how to get to Louisiana. When Vers asked him why Coulson didn’t hand them over to the Skrulls, Fury informed her that it was him going by his instinct to let them go. The two then bonded with each other as they flew, laughing over their experiences with each other. 

#### Alliance with the Skrulls

 ]]
 
Fury, Vers and Goose then made their way to Rambeau Residence in Louisiana. After they arrived, Vers was greeted by Monica Rambeau, who called her Auntie Carol and her mother Maria Rambeau, who was apparently a long-time friend, while Fury watched as all this unfolded. They all then went inside where Vers filled them in on the last six years of her life. Fury then went to go collect some of Vers' items with Monica, while Vers talked with Maria. Fury also witnessed Monica show Vers some photos of her old life.
 ]]
Fury joined Vers and Maria after Talos showed up at the house and wanted to make a deal with Vers in order to help him find the Light-Speed Engine's core. After listening to a black box recording of Vers and Mar-Vell, Vers remembered who she was, and both she and Fury agreed to help find the core at Mar-Vell's Laboratory to help Talos end the Kree-Skrull War. From there, Fury, Vers, Talos, Maria, and Goose boarded the Quadjet, upgraded by Norex, and headed off to find the core. 

#### Helping the Skrull Refugees

 ]]
 
Once in space, they found Mar-Vell's cloaked laboratory and proceeded to board, where they eventually found the core, which Mar-Vell referred to in her notes as the Tesseract. As it turned out, Mar-Vell's lab was doubling as a refuge for the Skrulls. They only revealed themselves after Talos called for them. Talos did not come for the Tesseract, but rather his wife and daughter, who were on board. Suddenly, they found themselves surrounded and outnumbered by the Starforce and Kree soldiers, led by Yon-Rogg. The Kree successfully retrieved the Tesseract and took Fury, Carol Danvers, Maria Rambeau, and Goose as their hostages.
 to attack]]
After overhearing Minn-Erva command that the Skrulls be ejected into space, Fury and Rambeau were freed from captivity by Danvers, who tasked them with getting the Skrulls and the Tesseract on the Quadjet and to safety. They found the Skrulls, though Talos had shape-shifted into a Kree soldier and used this disguise as a ruse to get Fury, Rambeau, and the rest of the Skrull refugees off the ship.
 pilot the Quadjet]]
After taking out three soldiers, Fury, Rambeau, Talos, and the Skrull refugees boarded the Quadjet to escape. However, they were tailed by Minn-Erva, and while Rambeau managed to blow her out the sky, Yon-Rogg began shooting at them soon thereafter. However, Danvers arrived just in time and knocked Yon-Rogg out of the sky. 

#### Aftermath of the Battle

 
 
Upon their victory, Fury was playing with Goose to celebrate but she scratched Fury's left eye, leaving a nasty scar which eventually blinded him. That night, Fury, Carol Danvers, Talos, Soren, Maria Rambeau, and the Skrulls returned to the Rambeau Residence, where Fury offered Rambeau a job as a pilot for S.H.I.E.L.D. Afterward, he and Danvers discussed the Tesseract being hidden on Earth. She then returned Fury's pager to him, which she upgraded with a range of at least a couple galaxies.
 ]]
Despite what happened, Fury agreed to take care of Goose while Danvers was away with the Skrulls. Returning to his office, he was approached by Phil Coulson, who brought him a box of prosthetic eyeballs. Coulson then asked Fury if the rumors that the Kree had blinded him as punishment for not giving them the Tesseract were true, to which Fury refused to confirm nor deny the claim. 

#### Avengers Initiative

 ]]
 
Fury's experience with Carol Danvers made him realize that Earth's arsenal, let alone S.H.I.E.L.D.'s can't protect the world, especially from intergalactic threats. This led him to form the Protectors Initiative but later renamed it into the Avengers Initiative, naming after Danvers' call-sign of "Avenger." According to the Initiative, S.H.I.E.L.D. would seek out individuals with unique abilities and powers and record them in the Index to form a response team should any threat beyond the warfighting capacity of conventional military forces appear. 

### Skrull Spy Network

#### Recruiting the Skrulls

 by Varra]]
 
In 1997, Fury agreed to help Talos make Earth a home for the Skrulls. He and Talos organized a meeting for the Skrulls in London, where the Skrull Varra approached Fury and introduced him to Gravik. Fury reached toward Gravik, who stepped back. Varra pulled Fury aside and explained that Gravik's parents were all killed during the Kree-Skrull War and that he piloted a ship himself to escape from the Kree.
 ]]
Varra suggested that he would be useful, prompting Fury to comment on the young boy's age. Varra simply asked Fury to talk to him, so he went up to Gravik and offered his condolences over the deaths for his family, as Gravik insisted that they died brilliant deaths. Fury warned Gravik that all their work was dangerous, to which Gravik said that he was not afraid, and Fury said that he could see that, as they had then embraced.
 by Talos]]
Fury then stood by, as Talos greeted the Skrulls in attendance, with Talos accepting the challenges they all faced while looking for a new home to replace Skrullos. Talos noted that the Skrulls had come to Earth had come there for one reason, which was because of Fury, whom Talos had noted that he now trusted. Fury had then stepped up, noting that since he met Talos, he believed humans and Skrulls could help each other.
 ]]
Fury noted that the world was facing a serious threat, and that he could use the help of the Skrulls to protect Earth. Fury promised to work with Carol Danvers to find a new home for the Skrulls while they worked as a spy network to keep Earth safe. Soren was the first Skrull to volunteer, so Fury thanked her and commented on her bravery. Fury had then assured the Skrulls that he would keep his word, turning to Gravik as he did. 

#### Relationship with Varra

 ]]
 
By 1998, Fury had built up a strong spy network, thanks to the assistance of the Skrulls. Arriving in New York City, Fury had gone to meet with Varra in the 93rd Diner, where he had ordered a black coffee, before he noticed a woman sitting alone, who had questioned if Fury was looking for somebody, with Fury noting that the person he was looking for could possibly look different depending on the day of the week.
 discuss Dreykov's actions]]
Fury had then realized that the woman was indeed Varra, who had taken on the appearance of Doctor Priscilla Davis. Varra then handed Fury an envelope, noting that what was inside would be able to put Dreykov and his men within the Red Room onto their heels. As Fury sat down, noting that Dreykov was already on their heels, he went to comment on Varra's newly chosen face, which he and Varra happily agreed was beautiful.
 sharing a laugh while flirting]]
When Fury questioned who the face belonged to, Varra claimed that this would depend on where the conversation went next, with Fury quickly insisting that commanders could not have any relationships with their operatives. However, Varra reminded Fury that their unit technically had not existed, so she technically did not work for him, which Fury claimed could be an intriguing possibility, while they had shared a laugh. 

#### Promotions

 
Throughout the years, Fury started ascending the ranks as Skrulls fed him information which allowed him to prevent terror attacks and gain a reputation as a great spy. The Skrulls worked to find information use as leverage against others. Overtime, Fury achieved several promotions thanks to the efforts of the Skrulls, and was promoted to Director of S.H.I.E.L.D. During his time as S.H.I.E.L.D.'s director, Fury would use Gravik for missions, sending him to assassinate a man, whose face Gravik would later use as his main human appearance. 

### Director of S.H.I.E.L.D.

#### Promotion

 
Due to his previous work in Bogotá, Alexander Pierce appointed Fury to director of S.H.I.E.L.D. while Pierce started running the World Security Council. As Director, Fury was interested in searching for mysterious and dangerous artifacts, such as the Darkhold, which he was unable to find. 

#### Avengers Recruitment

 ]]
As a part of the Avengers Initiative, Fury attempted to locate Captain America, whose body was lost following the end of World War II, although the WSC were highly critical of his attempts. The Council instead wanted Fury to focus his efforts on the Tesseract and harnessing all its power for S.H.I.E.L.D.'s benefit. However, Fury continued the search despite their demands. 

Fury found the most talented archer in the world, Clint Barton, who had almost never missed a shot. Fury hired Barton into S.H.I.E.L.D. and helped him set up a safehouse where he could live with his wife, Laura, a fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. agent known as Agent 19, whom Fury excluded from S.H.I.E.L.D.'s files in order to protect. 

In 2008, Fury sent Barton on a mission to eliminate the assassin Natasha Romanoff, codenamed Black Widow, but Barton decided not to kill her and recruited her into S.H.I.E.L.D., after she defected from the Red Room. The two then began a long partnership codenamed STRIKE Team: Delta, after Romanoff informed Fury of her training from the Red Room Academy. 

When Fury was informed that the United States Army, led by Thaddeus Ross, was hunting down Bruce Banner, he personally approached Banner in a bar and tried to talk to him peacefully. When this failed, Fury cued Johnson and Peterson to provoke Banner into displaying his powers, causing him to then turn into Hulk. Although alarmed at his transformation, Fury successfully stopped Hulk's rampage by appealing to Banner's desire to not hurt the innocent people, causing Hulk to leave. Afterwards at S.H.I.E.L.D, he officially declared Hulk to be Ross's problem for the time being. 

#### Birth of Iron Man

 ]]
 
In May 2008, when Tony Stark broke free from a cave in Afghanistan following kidnapping by the Ten Rings, Fury was informed by Jasper Sitwell about some sort of aircraft in the Kunar province with high energy signals. Later, when Iron Man was in Gulmira, Fury asked Sitwell how similar these signals were to the previous one; Sitwell replied that it was both stronger and faster than last time. When Fury asked Sitwell to contact Edwards Air Force Base to call the F-22 Raptors off, he replied that they already had attempted radio contact but were not successful. 
 ]]
Fury went into Stark's mansion, as he publicly revealed himself as Iron Man, and talked to him about the Avengers Initiative. However, Stark made it clear he did not want to be involved, so Fury ordered Black Widow to infiltrate Stark Industries and keep tabs on Stark. 

#### New Tasks

Fury continued to keep tabs on Stark. When Coulson asked him for his opinion on Stark's rescue of a pilot from an enemy area without collateral damage, Fury told him not to mistake Stark's actions for any kind of newfound maturity, and said they would keep watching him. 

After he assigned Coulson to recruit Hendricks to S.H.I.E.L.D., Fury sent Agent Garrett to check on a SEAL team. However, Garrett found out that the Ten Rings were there too. Fury was radioed by Garrett, not long into the mission, who said that he wasn't sure he'd make it out. After a few minutes, Garrett radioed again and told him that Iron Man swooped in a saved his life. Fury told Garret to clean up and arrive back for debrief. 

#### Project T.A.H.I.T.I.

Fearing the death of an Avenger, Fury had tasked Coulson to be the head of Project T.A.H.I.T.I., a project with the goal of reviving subjects from the dead. With GH.325 made from a deceased Kree who they still had in storage, they cured a group of terminally ill people, with the initial tests were successful as fatal illnesses were cured, however, later everything went wrong, causing the T.A.H.I.T.I. test subjects to mentally deteriorate. Coulson recommended the project be shut down; however, Fury had secretly decided to continue with the project. 

### The Big Week

#### New Troubles

 ]]
 
In May 2010, Fury led an expedition to Greenland in hopes of finding Steve Rogers, the American war hero from World War II. Fury did not find Rogers, but he found one of the disabled flying bombs from Hydra's super bomber, the Valkyrie. He wanted to continue the search but the World Security Council ordered his team to shut down the operation and return to New York's S.H.I.E.L.D. Headquarters. Twelve hours later, the Council ordered Fury to stop wasting time on "wasteful programs" and focus on reigniting the Tesseract, naming that operation "Project P.E.G.A.S.U.S." Despite the direct order, Fury decided to continue with his usual activities. 

Fury was ordered by the World Security Council to recruit Emil Blonsky into the Avengers Initiative, so he dispatched Phil Coulson and Jasper Sitwell to find the solution, since Blonsky was too much of a liability. Shortly after Stark's out-of-control behavior resulted in the Mark II Iron Man armor falling into the hands of the U.S. Military, Fury was informed by Coulson about the Wormhole appearing near the planet. Fury immediately sent Coulson to New Mexico to make contact with Erik Selvig and Jane Foster. 

#### Helping Tony Stark

 ]]
 
Shortly afterwards, Fury had learned that Iron Man was suffering from Palladium poisoning due to the Arc Reactor in his chest which kept shrapnel away from his heart, and had just been involved in a very public fight with James Rhodes at his mansion, during which much of the residence had been destroyed and Rhodes had stolen one of the suits to be handed over to the United States Air Force for their own study and use. Fury then personally confronted the hungover and still suited Tony Stark at Randy's Donuts for becoming a problem that he had to solve.
 ]]
As they sat inside the shop, Stark continued to insist that he was not interested in joining the Avengers, to which Fury noted how Stark still wanted to do everything himself before sarcastically asking how that was working out for him so far. While Stark questioned whether or not to look into Fury's eye or his eye patch and if he was even real, Fury turned his attention onto the palladium poisoning on Stark's neck. They were then joined by Natasha Romanoff, with Fury revealing he had placed her undercover within Stark Industries to keep an eye on Stark's behavior, prompting Stark to try firing her.
 confronting Iron Man]]
Fury began listing off everything that Stark had recently done which alarmed them, including making Pepper Potts the CEO of his company, selling his possessions and allowing Rhodes to fly off in one of his Iron Man Armors, although Stark claimed that Rhodes had stolen it, which Fury simply mocked him for. Stark then questioned what Fury wanted, which annoyed Fury even more as he told Stark that he had bigger issues to deal with around the world.
 's recovery]]
Following Fury's orders, Romanoff then provided Stark with a shot of lithium dioxide, which eased back his infection, although it did not fully cure it. When Stark insisted that there was no cure and that he had looked for every single known element to replace his Palladium Arc Reactor and found nothing, Fury informed Stark there was indeed a way to cure his infection and he just had not found it yet. Fury promised S.H.I.E.L.D. would help Stark find what he needed. 

#### Discussing Howard Stark

 discuss Arc Reactor]]
 
Fury and Tony Stark returned to Stark's home, where they discussed the history of the Arc Reactor, as Fury then claimed it was based on unfinished technology while Stark argued that it was finished but only really worked when he and Ho Yinsen had miniaturized it and put it in his chest. Fury, however, explained that Howard Stark believed the Arc Reactor was merely a stepping stone to something greater, as it would begin an incredible energy race across the world.
 's work]]
Fury then began providing information on the background of Anton Vanko, the father of Ivan Vanko, who had recently attempted to kill Stark, before he revealed that Howard Stark was, in fact, one of the founding members of S.H.I.E.L.D., which greatly surprised Stark. Fury and Natasha Romanoff provided Stark with information and materials from his father, which proved instrumental in finding a replacement power source for his personal Arc Reactor.
 to continue his work]]
Fury left Phil Coulson at Stark's mansion with orders not to allow him to leave until he had found a cure for his infection. Fury told Stark that he would be keeping his eye on him before leaving. As things in New Mexico became more complicated with the discovery of the 0-8-4, which revealed to be a hammer, Fury sent Clint Barton to join Coulson at the site. He also assigned Romanoff to keep track of the fugitive Bruce Banner, who was at Culver University. 

#### Recruiting a Consultant

 for a meeting]]
 
Fury met with Tony Stark once again after Stark had successfully managed to fix his Arc Reactor and had gone on to defeat Ivan Vanko during the attack on the Stark Expo. Once Fury arrived, he had found Stark looking over a brief for the Avengers Initiative which he then claimed he did not want Stark to read, instead of handing him Natasha Romanoff's assessment of Stark himself during her undercover mission with Stark.
 discuss his review]]
Reading the assessment in which Romanoff claimed he contained compulsive behavior and self-destructive tendencies, with textbook narcissism. However, while Iron Man had been approved by Romanoff to join the Avengers, Stark had proven himself unsuitable for the Avengers due to all of his recent actions and was rejected, with Fury instead considering recruiting James Rhodes to the position, as Fury instead offered to recruit Stark's services only as a consultant.
 ]]
Standing up and shaking his hand, Stark told Fury that he could not afford his services before going to walk out. However, before he left, Stark then agreed to be the consultant as long as Fury helped him convince Stern to present him and Rhodes with the medals for all their bravery in defeating Whiplash, which Fury agreed to. Romanoff then gave Fury report on Bruce Banner's transformation into Hulk and his successful fight against Emil Blonsky. 
 's one request]]
As his long week continued, Phil Coulson informed Fury about the Destroyer's attack on Puente Antiguo, while Fury had learned how Thaddeus Ross hacked S.H.I.E.L.D.'s computers, having been given permission by the World Security Council. Fury ordered Romanoff to meet Samuel Sterns to take any papers on Banner, as Romanoff took Sterns into custody, having shot him through the leg having also witnessed Sterns' incomplete transformation. 

#### End of the Week

 ]]
 
Fury's recruitment drive turned to people who had been involved in a destructive incident in Puente Antiguo. Impressed by the work he had seen and the discoveries that had been made, Fury had summoned Erik Selvig, who had been associated with all the recent incidents and the sightings of Thor, to the Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility, greeting him in a hallway.
 's and Foster's work]]
While Selvig joked that the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents had taken him there to kill him, Fury commented on how impressed he had been, although Selvig had still mainly credited Jane Foster for all of her most recent discoveries about the Bifrost Bridge and the Nine Realms, which he called unprecedented, although Fury then made it clear that this had already been predicted. Fury then drew the scientist's attention to a secure, portable storage case he had kept within the facility.
 the Tesseract]]
Fury revealed the Tesseract within the case and told Selvig that it was a source of immense power, although nobody had been able to determine how to tap all the power. Selvig accepted the challenge to investigate the object further. Fury gave his report to the World Security Council. Finally satisfied with his work, the Council decided to increase the funding for the agency while expanding jurisdictions for S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, and augment Fury's strategic authority. 

### A New Home

 
In 2011, Varra bought a house in England that offered privacy, security and light, all of which Fury valued. Fury and Varra lived in the home together, and Fury would often sit by a window and read a book. 

### Finding an Avenger

#### Awakening of Steve Rogers

 
In 2011, a year following, the "big week," Fury's Avengers Initiative was slowly losing traction by the time another potential recruit was found. Steve Rogers, the world's first super soldier, who had been frozen in the Arctic ever since his battle against Hydra and the Red Skull all the way back during World War II and had somehow managed to miraculously survive his frozen entombment for almost seventy years. 
 ]]
Fury oversaw Rogers's recovery and rehabilitation as he was placed in the S.H.I.E.L.D. Headquarters within Times Square until he awoke. Fury then personally intercepted Rogers when the man awoke and escaped into the heart of New York City since he had become utterly confused about his surroundings as he had no knowledge of what had transpired in the world since 1945 and was shocked to see the world around him and the advancements in technology.
 will be alright]]
Once Fury had explained the situation, he then saw that Rogers was having a hard to taking in the new information, as he looked around at the new world while Fury's S.H.I.E.L.D. agents surrounded him. Seeing how distressed he was, Fury questioned if Rogers would be alright, as Rogers noted he had a date with Peggy Carter which he had subsequently missed due to being trapped in the ice for so many decades, unsure if Carter was actually still alive or not. 

#### Security Test

 ]]
In early 2012, Fury asked Hawkeye to test the Helicarrier's security by breaking inside and accessing the Avengers Initiative database, only for him to be stopped by Black Widow. Fury was later questioned about the Avenger candidates by Hawkeye and Widow. 

### Chitauri Invasion

#### Loki's Invasion of Earth

 's instability]]
 
With little to show for his efforts with bringing the Avengers together, Fury shelved his plan and had begun focusing on weaponry instead. Fury's Phase 2, as the offshoot idea came to be called, involved re-engineering weapons technology that had emerged in the hands of Hydra years earlier during World War II, as well as another cutting edge, or alien technology. The Tesseract, which he had assigned Erik Selvig to investigate, formed a significant part of this puzzle which Fury kept a close eye on throughout Selvig's experiments.
 her evacuation orders]]
In May 2012, when the Tesseract had begun suddenly emitting unexpectedly high levels of gamma radiation, Fury was quick to personally take charge of the operation. He arrived at the Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility base with Maria Hill; there they met Phil Coulson. Fury ordered the evacuation of the base and Phase 2 prototypes to be moved to a safe distance while questioning how bad the situation was, to which Coulson then explained he did not know. Fury also found Hill questioning his plan for evacuation and his current priorities, believing that they should be focused on trying to control the Tesseract however they could.
 's activity]]
Fury then ordered his updates from Selvig and was informed that the Tesseract's activities were unexplainable at this point, as Selvig had explained that due to the Tesseract being its own energy source they could not shut down the power. Fury listened while Selvig explained that despite them preparing for the situation as best they could, this was difficult to control, noting that it was emitting some low levels of gamma radiation, which Fury recalled had turned Bruce Banner into Hulk, as he noted that gamma radiation could be harmful. Fury requested to speak to Clint Barton, as Selvig noted that he was watching them.
 witnessing Loki's arrival]]
Barton then joined Fury to give him his report on the situation as it continued unfolding, Barton was convinced that Selvig was not to blame and instead explained his theory that the Tesseract was a door to the other end of space, noting that it was possible that this door was being opened from the other side. Barton's theory was soon proved correct as the Tesseract Accelerator opened a portal that allowed Loki to arrival to Earth. Seeing Loki was armed with his Scepter, Fury initially tried to reason with him, but Loki responded by killing much staff in the laboratory, before using the Mind Stone inside the Scepter to turn Selvig, Barton and other agents into his own personal slaves.
 ]]
Defenseless against Loki's power, Fury made a desperate attempt to escape with the Tesseract, pulling it out of its container and trying to leave without being seen. However, Loki ordered him to stop before introducing himself as Loki of Asgard, while Selvig then realized that Loki was the brother of Thor. Knowing that the energy levels above them were causing serious damage to the facility, Fury stalled Loki by questioning Loki on his true scheme for Earth, however, when they discovered that Fury was stalling while he waited for the building to implode, Loki ordered Barton to shoot Fury in the chest and take the Tesseract.
 
Fury survived being shot due to wearing a Bulletproof Vest and had managed to get back onto his feet, before getting onto the radio to inform Maria Hill of Barton's betrayal and ordering her to do what she could to attempt to stop Barton from escaping with Loki and the Tesseract. With the energy from the Tesseract going critical over his head, Fury ran through the facility to get back upstairs and make his escape, avoiding pieces of debris as the facility fell apart around him until Fury made it to a helicopter. Once in the air, Fury witnessed the entire facility implode, killing everybody who was still inside.
 from escaping]]
Determined not to lose sight of the Tesseract due to the fear that it's incredible power in Loki's hands could cause mass destruction, Fury had managed to get ahead of Barton's Jeep just as it came out of a secret entrance to the now destroyed facility, as they had left behind Hill whose own jeep had become trapped underneath much of the collapsed rubble but survived. Although Hawkeye attempted to drive out of sight of the helicopter, Fury had then opened up his door and began shooting down at them, willing to kill Hawkeye if it meant they could stop Loki from making his escape with the Tesseract.
 ]]
However, before Fury could land a successful gunshot and stop the jeep's escape in time, he was then quickly shot down with a single powerful blast fired from Loki's Scepter which had destroyed the tail rotor, as the Helicopter began violently spinning out of control and finally crash-landed onto the ground, with Fury managing to leap to safety moments before the impact. Fury had survived the crash and continued to shoot at Loki until he ran out of bullets and watched in dismay while Hawkeye drove Loki into the distance along with Selvig and the Tesseract, with Fury unable to do anything to stop them, with Fury now standing alone in the ruins of the destroyed facility.
 
With Loki now out of sight, Fury got on his radio and confirmed that both Coulson and Hill were still alive following the facility implosion, ordering them to get every S.H.I.E.L.D. agent they had who was not focused on rescuing possible survivors underneath all the rubble to be searching for Loki. Fury then ordered Coulson to get back to base as their mission was the level seven and they were now at war. With that, Fury reactivated the Avengers Initiative, sending out his team to recruit Iron Man and Hulk with the intention of fighting the forces Loki would send against them with the Tesseract's power. 

#### Recruiting Captain America

 argue over his plan]]
 
Desperate for a solution to the problem of Loki's possession of the Tesseract, Fury informed the World Security Council that he was activating the Avengers Initiative. While they discussed what happened, Hawley had suggested called Thor but Fury made it clear that was unlikely as Gideon Malick argued that the Avengers were too unstable to make a team to be relied on, but Fury insisted that this war would be won with his soldiers.
 training in the gym]]
Ignoring Malick's concerns, Fury met with Steve Rogers in his gym, where he was still trying to cope with having been asleep for nearly seventy years, with Fury suggesting that he should be out celebrating his survival and enjoying the new world he was in. Rogers, however, noted that when he disappeared, World War II was still being fought and he had only recently learned that it was won soon afterwards, although Rogers was still unsure of what America had lost. Fury then noted that they made some mistakes along the way, and confessed that some of these mistakes had been made very recently.
 to the Avengers]]
Fury then informed Rogers that he had come there with a mission for him, noting that he was trying to save the entire world before handing Rogers the file about the Tesseract, which he noted had been found in the ocean by Howard Stark while he had still been searching for Rogers in the 1940s. Fury then explained what S.H.I.E.L.D. had been doing with the Tesseract and went on to explain the current situation to Rogers, hoping that he would be able to provide them with some insight into the Tesseract after seeing Red Skull using it for Hydra's ultimate goals of world domination, although Rogers was mortified that the Tesseract had fallen into the wrong hands once again.
 to join him]]
As Rogers then questioned who took the Tesseract from them, Fury explained how Loki had taken it and was from another world, as they made a bet over whether or not anything could still surprise Rogers now he was in this new world. As Rogers left, Fury had asked for any more information, with Rogers telling him the best thing that could be done with it would be losing it in the ocean. Although Rogers was unhappy when he learned that S.H.I.E.L.D. had been in possession of the Tesseract, Fury was able to recruit him, and dispatched agents to call in the help of both Tony Stark and Bruce Banner. 

#### Activating the Avengers

 ]]
 
With time running out to stop Loki from completing his goals of world domination, Fury had all their key candidates for the Avengers found and brought onto the Helicarrier, with the assistance of both Natasha Romanoff and Phil Coulson, who gave each of them all a full briefing about Loki and the plan to find and stop him before it was too late. Fury had the Helicarrier flown into the air and put on cloaking so that their mission could continue without being interrupted as Maria Hill relayed his orders.
 ]]
With the Helicarrier now in the air and almost completely invisible to the human eye, Fury had then turned his attention oval to their now assembled Avengers Initiative. Having seen the incredible sight of the advanced technology that the Helicarrier was now displaying and the scale of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s influence over the world, allowed Rogers to go quietly hand Fury ten dollars to complete a bet they had made about whether or not Rogers could be surprised by any new things since fighting Hydra and waking up in the modern era, as Fury smiled to himself and then went over to greet all of the other Avengers.
 ]]
Fury welcomed them all onto the ship, shaking Bruce Banner's hand and personally thanking him for agreeing to help them. Banner asked Fury how long he would be required to stay with S.H.I.E.L.D. but Fury assured him that it would only be until they found the Tesseract. Now feeling more confident, Banner suggested that they begin scanning for gamma radiation to locate the Tesseract while Fury had ordered Romanoff show him to his laboratory where he began focusing all his search efforts, getting help from laboratories around the world to find Loki and Erik Selvig as quickly as possible.
 to capture Loki]]
Not long after the team came together, Loki had made his first public appearance in Germany which had been seen by Jasper Sitwell, so Fury had then sent Rogers to capture him with the Quinjet and bring him back to the Helicarrier. Loki was apprehended by the combined strength of Captain America and Iron Man, heralding an unexpected further addition to the collection of extraordinary people when Loki's adopted brother Thor arrived, making demands of his own for Loki's extradition. Although the clash between Thor and Iron Man occurred, Captain America was able to end that and they recruited Thor. 

#### Dealing with Asgardians

 in his prison cell]]
 
With Loki having been successfully captured within Germany, he was brought onboard the Helicarrier under armed guard and locked up inside the cage designed to keep Hulk. Fury then spoke to Loki personally, threatening that if he made any attempt to escape then his cell would be dropped off the ship and fall thirty thousand feet to the ground, as Loki noted how the cell had not been designed for him, to which Fury then confirmed that it had in fact originally been designed for someone who was considerably stronger than Loki.
 his final warnings]]
Despite the threat, however, Loki appeared to remain confident and mocked the Avengers throughout the interrogation, questioning how desperate Fury must be to bring together such a poor team together in order to stop him. Fury answered this by listing all of Loki's crimes, including threatening Earth with war while killing innocent lives. Loki had mocked Fury by claiming that he had lost his chance to use the Tesseract to gain unlimited power and, although Fury had merely scoffed at the statement, making it clear that Loki no longer had any power, mocking him by offering a magazine as he walked away.
 's schemes are]]
Having left Loki alone in his cell, Fury then rejoined the Avengers who were still discussing what Loki's true plans could be, finding Bruce Banner and Tony Stark discussing how Loki could use the Tesseract and harness its power for his own means. As they agreed to begin studying Loki's Scepter and how that worked, Fury then expressed his desire to understand how Loki had just recently used the Scepter to change both Hawkeye and Erik Selvig to his own personal slaves, while also making a comparison with the , which was a reference which Captain America was delighted to understand.
 about the Asgardian wars]]
Having discussed what Loki had said with the Avengers, Fury later spoke to Thor, who had been discussing Asgard's wars on Earth with Phil Coulson and commenting on how Loki's fury at him had resulted in him sending the Destroyer to Puente Antiguo and nearly killing several innocent lives. Fury asked Thor if he felt he could learn what Loki's plans were with the Tesseract, but Thor simply remained uncertain, as he told Fury that Loki's mind has snapped and he now not only wanted power but vengeance on him and his family for the slights against him since learning of the truth about his past.
 about Loki's schemes]]
When Thor questioned what it was that Fury was asking him to do, fearing that he may soon be called upon to end his own brother's life, Fury, in turn, questioned what Thor was now prepared to do in order to keep Earth safe from Loki's wrath. However, believing that they had gained the upper hand over him, Thor had then questioned what possible risk Loki could be to Earth now that he was his prisoner onboard the Helicarrier, Fury instead then raised his concerns about Loki's seeming overconfidence and noted that he seemed glad to be on the ship unlike everybody else who was there with him. 

#### Avengers Argument

 has hacked S.H.I.E.L.D.]]
 
As Fury sent Natasha Romanoff to interrogate Loki and trick him into giving away his schemes as she seemingly tried to bargain for Clint Barton's life, Fury was unaware of tensions between the Avengers as they searched for the Tesseract. Eventually, Fury learned of this as he saw a warning that the Helicarrier was now being hacked, allowing someone to access all of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s top-secret documents and Fury had no doubt about which genius rogue was to blame.
 's action]]
Angered by this, Fury then went to Tony Stark and Bruce Banner as he questioned what they were doing and why they were not trying to locate the Tesseract, only for Banner to explain how they had been doing that and figured out a system as they waited for the alert. Stark then completed his hack into S.H.I.E.L.D.'s systems as he had asked Fury what Phase 2 really was. However, just before Fury could then answer Stark's question, Captain America had then entered the room with a Arnimhilation 99L Assault Weapon which he had found, claiming that Phase Two was S.H.I.E.L.D. using the Tesseract to make weapons.
 weapons]]
As Fury then attempted to defend his actions to Rogers by claiming that they had simply gathered everything they could on the Tesseract, he was interrupted by Stark who pulled up files proving that S.H.I.E.L.D. was indeed copying the Hydra's designs in order to make Tesseract-powered weapons, which greatly angered Rogers. As they were joined by Romanoff and Thor, Banner was asked to leave the room since they now believed that he could be getting manipulated by Loki, only for Banner to then demand to know what S.H.I.E.L.D.'s real intentions with the Tesseract were.
 's motive]]
Finally, Fury confessed that the weapons were being built due to the recent arrival of all the Asgardians, pointing to the Battle of Puente Antiguo in which Loki had sent down the Destroyer which had been proven to have considerably more strength than S.H.I.E.L.D. could currently handle. While Thor insisted that the Asgardians only wanted peace with Earth, Fury noted that they were not the only beings out there who they could not match or control. Thor, however, claimed that Fury's use of the Tesseract had brought Loki there, claiming that it was a signal that Earth was ready for a higher form of war.
 ]]
When Stark insulted Fury's attempt to use a nuclear deterrent to end the crisis, Fury reminded him of how Stark Industries had made their billions from selling their weapons. This led to an intense argument with Rogers and Stark then debating the standards of being heroes, as Thor questioned Fury over whether or not humans were more advanced than this, to which Fury had simply noted how they had never gone to Asgard and caused destruction, unlike Loki. While Banner claimed that the Avengers were a time bomb, Fury became concerned and recommended Banner step out of this situation.
 almost losing control]]
Fury then watched as Rogers and Stark had continued their argument, until telling Romanoff to remove Banner from the room, leading to Banner becoming angry over the creation of a cell made to kill him, explaining that it was not possible to kill him, which he knew to attempt suicide previously. To their horror, the agitated Banner then picked up the Scepter as he had promised to explain his secret to remaining calm, as Rogers made him realize what was happening just as they got the signal on the Tesseract's location, as Banner then calmed down and went to check the result. 

#### Attack on the Helicarrier

 's soldiers]]
 
However, just before Bruce Banner could inform Fury and the others of the Tesseract's location, Loki played his hand, as Fury was caught off guard when the Helicarrier came under attack and their engine was destroyed in a daring commando raid by Loki's mind-controlled soldiers led by Hawkeye. With one of their propellers completely destroyed, Fury ordered the Avengers to assemble as they all desperately attempted to regain control of the sudden deadly situation.
 
Once he returned to his post on the bridge to take command of the situation, Fury ordered that the Helicarrier be positioned over water to ensure that if they fell out of the sky, they would not kill thousands of innocent lives below them, becoming annoyed as he had to give directions to the navigator about how to figure out where to turn to get over water. Fury remained instrumental in controlling the current situation, ensuring that Captain America and Iron Man focused onto repairing the damaged propeller to ensure their safety while giving his orders to the other team members to finally regain control.
 's control room]]
However, just as they were taking back control, Maria Hill noticed a grenade being thrown into the control room, causing an explosion which knocked Hill backwards. Reacting swiftly, Fury then hid and allowed Loki's soldiers to ensure the room before he ambushed them, as Fury grabbed one from behind and took a hold of his gun before he gunned him and two other soldiers down. When another soldier then almost took Fury unprepared, Hill managed to shoot him dead, before Fury and Hill joined forces and held Loki's forces at bay to keep them from managing to take over their control room.
 and all his soldiers]]
With the attack still continuing, Fury had then engaged in a fierce gunfight alongside Hill, keeping all Loki's soldiers at bay, until Hawkeye joined the fight and had fired several explosive arrows at Fury and Hill, causing explosions which killed multiple S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Just as Fury saw Hawkeye and shot at him to keep him back, Hawkeye managed to shoot his hacking arrow at the control box, causing the entire Helicarrier to lose control, as Fury and Jasper Sitwell looked on in horror as they began falling from the sky, until Iron Man eventually succeeded at restarting the engines with Captain America's help.
 
Knowing that Hawkeye was running the attack, Fury then sent Black Widow to go out and personally engage him while also ordering one of his fighter jets to fire at Hulk in order to force him to escape the Helicarrier before he could tear it all apart, which resulted in Hulk furiously destroying the jet before disappearing having been thrown overboard. During the aftermath of the battle, Thor and Hulk had been thrown off the Helicarrier, while Hawkeye had been captured in the aftermath of a fight with the Black Widow, during which Loki had also escaped onboard a Quinjet in all of the still ongoing chaos.
 's demise]]
Fury had eventually found Phil Coulson severely wounded by Loki's hands, having been stabbed through the chest while he was attempting to stop Loki from getting away using the Destroyer Armor Prototype Gun, while Coulson apologized for failing to stop Loki from getting away. Despite all Fury's efforts to keep him awake, Coulson's wounds were fatal, and Coulson died just as a medical team arrived, with his own final words telling Fury that the Avengers Initiative would never work unless they had someone to avenge. Fury informed all of the other agents and the Avengers of Coulson's sudden death. 

#### Inspiring the Avengers

 of Phil Coulson's death]]
 
Fury called a meeting with the last of the Avengers left on board the Helicarrier, Steve Rogers and Tony Stark, and showed Rogers all of Phil Coulson's beloved collection of trading cards, which were now stained with Coulson's blood as Fury claimed that he had gotten them from Coulson's jacket when in reality he had taken them from Coulson's locker in the room that seeing them would inspire the team, reminding Rogers of how Coulson had never had a chance to get his hero to sign them as he had asked just before his death.
 ]]
With great regret, Fury told Rogers and Stark their communications and idea of where the Tesseract currently was were all gone, along with both Thor and Bruce Banner who had also been recently thrown off their Helicarrier during all of the chaos, while noting that due to Coulson's death he had lost his one good eye, questioning if he had that coming to him. Fury confessed to the pair that S.H.I.E.L.D. was indeed planning on building up their arsenal of weapons with all the Tesseract's technology, similar to what Hydra had previously done, but noted that he had another plan which was an even greater risk.
 into action]]
Fury then explained to Rogers and Stark that Coulson had wanted to believe in heroes as he had designed the Avengers Initiative to bring together remarkable people to see if they could become something more, and become the team which could fight all of the battles that S.H.I.E.L.D. never could, such as the threats that Loki was currently posing to Earth. As Fury had noted how Coulson had died while still believing in this Initiative and the concept of heroes, Stark got up and left the room out of grief and frustration over Coulson's death, as Fury regretfully confessed that it was an old fashioned notion.
 's trading cards]]
As he overlooked the skyline while looking at Coulson's trading cards himself, Maria Hill questioned Fury as Coulson kept his trading cards in his locker, not his jacket as Fury had claimed; Fury explained that he had used the cards to give the team the push they needed. Fury had used Coulson's death to motivate the Avengers, hoping that Coulson's death would be a trigger that would finally unite the team. Despite the ethically questionable nature of the plan, it proved to be effective, as the Avengers were inspired to stop Loki and had set off onboard a Quinjet in pursuit of Loki shortly thereafter. 

#### Battle of New York

 battle Loki's army]]
 
With the team inspired by Phil Coulson's death and wanting to avenge him, the Avengers Initiative had finally come to fruition, as the team traveled to New York City where they found Loki had activated the Tesseract, opening a portal above Stark Tower which had allowed his army of Chitauri to pour into New York, causing mass destruction and claiming hundreds of lives. As the Avengers battled Loki's army, Fury watched the action from the Helicarrier, however, he soon discovered that his role in the Avengers' battle was not yet done.
 ]]
With their battle still raging, Maria Hill had approached Fury and then informed him that the World Security Council were demanding to speak with him. To his horror, Fury spoke to the Council who issued orders for Fury to send his nuclear missile directly into the vicinity of Manhattan in order to destroy Loki and his army, which Fury furiously refused to do, still stating that he would not just order the deaths of millions of innocent lives despite Gideon Malick's insistence that they would lose everything in this war if they did not fire upon the invading force, before Fury had simply hung up his call with the Council.
 
Furious that Fury was disobeying a direct order from them to fire the nuclear missile, the Council had instead chosen to take away Fury's command of S.H.I.E.L.D., overriding the order and sending an F-35 Lightning II to fire upon the city and kill millions of people. Hill was able to warn Fury of the launch and he ran onto the launchpad in his desperate attempt to stop the jet. Fury was able to shoot the jet with a rocket launcher causing it to crash but not kill the pilot, however, a second jet had been sent as well which Fury was unable to stop as it flew towards New York City while Fury looked on helplessly.
 's ultimate sacrifice]]
Fury called Tony Stark to warn him of the impending nuke, Stark was able to intercept the missile and fly it towards the Wormhole. At the same time, Romanoff and Erik Selvig has figured out a way to close the Wormhole using the Scepter, giving Stark only seconds to lose the missile and escape. Stark then flew through the Wormhole and destroyed the Chitauri Command Center, killing all of the invading aliens of the mothership. Stark barely survived the fall back onto Earth but was caught and saved by Hulk. They looked across the city and determined they had won the war as they captured a bruised and beaten Loki yet again. 

#### Disbanding the Avengers

 ]]
 
Now that the Avengers Initiative had ultimately succeeded, Fury's defiance of the World Security Council may not have been forgotten, but his methods and actions had saved the world. Fury then updated the Council members on the whereabouts of the Tesseract, which had been taken back to Asgard by Thor, despite Gideon Malick insisting that this was not Fury's decision to make, to which Fury simply claimed that he just had not argued with Thor.
 discussing the Avengers]]
When the council asked the whereabouts of the Avengers, he told them that they were no longer being tracked as he believed that they had deserved the chance to go off the grid following their victory. When Hawley noted that Fury was putting them at risk by bringing the Avengers together, Fury informed her that they had successfully made it clear to every world that they were dangerous and there to protect Earth. When Malick asked if making a statement of strength had been the point of this entire endeavor, Fury instead claimed that he had made a promise before he hung up the call to the Council.
 about Avengers]]
As Fury walked across the Helicarrier's control room and overlooking the skyline, he was questioned by Maria Hill about what they would do if the world came under threat again, as now the team had gone their separate ways, with some now traveling to the other end of the universe. Fury, however, resolved to call upon the Avengers should they be needed again, and made further assurances that they would come, why Hill asked him why he was so sure of this, he told her this would be that they would need them. With Hill now satisfied with the answer she walked away, leaving Fury overlooking the skyline. 

### Aftermath of the Invasion

#### Resurrection of Phil Coulson

 's slow recovery]]
 
Unknown to the Avengers, Phil Coulson was brought back to life with S.H.I.E.L.D.'s advanced technology and experimental drugs. Fury chose to hide the truth about Coulson's survival from the Avengers, classifying the information to those with Level 7 clearance or above. He then buried information about Coulson's involvement in Project T.A.H.I.T.I. in Coulson's fake grave, cryptically telling Maria Hill that he buried the information about who led Project T.A.H.I.T.I. when he decided not to bury Coulson. 

Following the Battle of New York, with the planet now learning of the existence of extraterrestrials and demigods, criminals and terrorist organizations wanted to obtain new technologies and weapons left by the Chitauri. Fury knew that he has to do something about that, instructing Coulson to build an operative team to prevent this. Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. - Behind-the-Scenes With the Cast & Crew However, the true builder of Coulson's Team was Melinda May; upon orders from Fury, she covertly chose the members for very specific reasons pertaining to Coulson's resurrection. Fury also had May keep him updated on Coulson for signs of mental deterioration. 

#### Trip to Paris

 to meet with Varra]]
 
In the aftermath of the Chitauri Invasion, Fury took a trip to Paris, France, where he met with Varra at a restaurant. Once Fury joined her, Varra noted that she had watched the footage of the Avengers' heroics during the Battle of New York on the news, and she had a feeling that Fury had something to do with getting all of them together in order to battle against Loki and his invading army.
 discuss the Avengers]]
Neither confirming or denying, Fury instead asked what it meant if it was someone she knew, to which Varra claimed that it would not surprise her, as the man she knew had a powerful sense of righteousness, who knew the dangers of the universe, that home was worth fighting for, and the weak were worth protecting. Changing the subject, Fury asked Varra about her book, which she explained was a collection of poems.
 ]]
Noting that the poems were by Raymond Carter, Varra asked if Fury knew them, which he denied, claiming he instead read more history. They then discussed which of the poems were Varra's favourites, as she noted that "Late Fragment" was her favourite, with Fury asking her to recite this for him. Following Varra's direction, Fury read parts from this poem with her, where she claimed to want from her life to be called beloved. Fury and Varra eventually married and went on a honeymoon in Finland, where Varra enjoyed the cold weather. 

#### Meeting with Phil Coulson

 ]]
 
In September 2013, following Coulson's mission in Peru, Fury was furious at Coulson as the Bus was heavily damaged. He also warned him that Skye was a risk as she had previously been a member of the Rising Tide. As Fury left he told Coulson not to allow Jemma Simmons and Leo Fitz to install their fish tank onto the plane. Shortly after the Battle of Greenwich, Coulson and his team were investigating the discovery of a lost Asgardian artifact known as the Berserker Staff. Coulson wanted to consult with Thor, but Fury informed him that Thor had taken himself "off the grid". 
 discuss Skye's risks]]
According to Victoria Hand, when Coulson got abducted by the Centipede Project and tortured for several days by Edison Po, both Fury and Maria Hill wanted constant updates on the situation of the rescue mission coordinated by Hand and the other agents. Hand later informed Coulson that Fury was very relieved after hearing of Coulson's successful rescue mission. A few weeks later, May used a secure phone line on the Bus to call Fury and tell him that Coulson knew the truth about his resurrection. 

### Hydra Uprising

#### Project Insight

 ]]
 
Shortly after the Battle of New York, Captain America remained with S.H.I.E.L.D. and worked with the STRIKE team at Fury's behest, often partnered with Black Widow. In March 2014, Fury then covertly hired Georges Batroc and his team of mercenaries to take over the Lemurian Star in order to provide cover for Romanoff's mission to get information on Project Insight. After the successful mission, Rogers and Fury clashed over the director's secrecy concerning mission details.
 about his grandfather]]
Wishing to prove to Rogers that he was willing to share secrets, Fury decided to take him to see Project Insight, overriding protocol to give Rogers security clearance. As they were going down in the elevator, Fury told Rogers the story of how his grandfather was often threatened and carried a gun at work to protect himself; Fury explained that while his grandfather liked people, he did not trust them and they now had guns somewhat bigger than what his grandfather had.
 discuss Project Insight]]
Fury revealed to Rogers that S.H.I.E.L.D. intended to preemptively eliminate their enemies through the new Project Insight Helicarriers. Rogers, however, who mortified with the concept, pointed out how this meant that people were being killed before they had a chance to commit a crime, something that could be highly dangerous. Fury responded that soldiers like Rogers in World War II were involved in various war crimes, too, but Rogers refused to budge on his stance.
 ]]
As Fury returned to his office and prepared to look into the files that Romanoff had gathered from the Lemurian Star, he found that he did not have clearance for the files. This confused Fury, as there were very few to no documents which he was not cleared to access, raising his suspicions that Project Insight could be a risk. Fury went into the elevator and prepared to speak to the only other man who could have access to the blocked file.
 ]]
Fury found Secretary Alexander Pierce speaking to the World Security Council about the Hijacking and Retaking of the Lemurian Star, defending Fury's actions involving the mission and discussing Batroc. Fury briefly pulled Pierce out of the meeting and asked him to delay Project Insight's launch, hesitant of the possible dangers of the project to the world. Pierce was incredibly reluctant as he knew the amount of work which would go into such an action, but Fury insisted that it would be worthwhile. Pierce agreed with one condition, that Fury had Iron Man visit his niece's birthday party. Fury agreed and the pair shook hands and departed. 

#### Attack on Nick Fury

 ]]
 
Afterward, Fury drove across Washington, D.C. and called Maria Hill, telling her to come to Washington to discuss his theories about Project Insight and gave her three hours to arrive, which she did not question. As Fury continued driving, he encountered two police officers who appeared to be watching him, so Fury insulted the pair, assuming that they were simply being racist and profiling him.
 ]]
Before he could react, a group of Hydra agents disguised as cops then attacked Fury while he was driving, slamming into his car and using an Electronic Battering Ram to try and penetrate the vehicle's armor. Despite suffering a fractured arm, Fury was able to utilize his SUV's defense mechanisms to fight back against the assassins, firing a machine gun at them before driving away. During a prolonged car chase, Fury continued to fight and outwit his attackers while driving.
 ]]
Just as Fury got to safety after causing two of his assassins' car to be hit by a passing lorry, he encountered an assassin known as the Winter Soldier, who used a Disc Grenade to disable Fury's SUV, causing it to violently crash and greatly injure him. As the Winter Soldier walked to the car to execute him, Fury used a Mouse Hole to cut through the car and escape into the sewers, seeking assistance from the only person he felt he could trust. 

#### Seeking Steve Rogers' Aid

 ' apartment]]
 
Fury retreated to Steve Rogers's apartment and sat waiting in the darkness while listening to music. When Rogers arrived after speaking to his neighbor, Fury greeted him and showed Rogers his injuries to express the seriousness of the situation. He spoke in coded language, claiming to have been thrown out of his house by his wife, who very few people knew about. Meanwhile, Fury texted on his phone to communicate to Rogers his real message that S.H.I.E.L.D. was compromised, as he knew the apartment was bugged.
 ]]
However, the Winter Soldier had followed Fury there and fired two sniper rounds through the wall and into his chest, mortally wounding him. As Fury struggled for breath, he gave Rogers the hard drive of Project Insight and urged him not to trust anyone. Sharon Carter arrived and treated Fury's wounds while Rogers chased the Winter Soldier, but was unable to capture the assassin. Fury was taken to the hospital and ultimately pronounced dead during surgery, after which his body was taken by Hill. 

#### Fighting Back

 
 
Despite Alexander Pierce and the entirety of S.H.I.E.L.D. believing him to have been killed, Fury had in fact successfully faked his death by using Tetrodotoxin B, a drug developed as a heart-rate suppressant by Bruce Banner to relieve stress. Fury retreated with Maria Hill and Doctor Fine to a hidden facility until Hill was able to bring Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff and Sam Wilson, who had almost been captured by Hydra, to the base and reveal the truth. Fury told the group that they needed to expose Project Insight and save S.H.I.E.L.D., but Rogers insisted that he intended to destroy S.H.I.E.L.D. entirely, pointing out that Fury's compartmentalization and secrecy were what allowed Hydra to infiltrate the organization in the first place, as well as create the Winter Soldier. Although Fury told Rogers that he had not known about the Winter Soldier, Rogers pointed out that Fury probably would not have told him even if he did. Realizing that Romanoff, Wilson, and Hill agreed with Rogers, Fury then consented to destroy S.H.I.E.L.D. Romanoff and Fury then talked about not including Romanoff in his circle of trust. 
 ]]
The team then worked out a plan to infiltrate the Triskelion and destroy Project Insight, which had been revealed to be a Hydra plot orchestrated by Arnim Zola and Pierce. Before returning to the Triskelion, Fury ordered Bobbi Morse and Isabelle Hartley to rescue Robert Gonzales in the Iliad, and also ordered Morse to destroy the ship in order to prevent Hydra from obtaining the Monolith. 

#### Battle at the Triskelion

 ]]
 
The plan went underway as Captain America rallied the remaining loyal S.H.I.E.L.D. agents together to fight Hydra while Black Widow used a Photostatic Veil to disguise herself as Hawley to infiltrate the World Security Council and get to Project Insight's leader. Once Romanoff was able to capture Alexander Pierce, Fury arrived and confronted his former friend.
 ]]
While Pierce joked about having sent flowers to Fury's funeral, he attempted to justify his actions of nearly assassinating Fury and causing mass-genocide by comparing Project Insight to what Fury did in Bogotá, not waiting for orders but doing what needed to be done. Fury asked why Pierce made him Director of S.H.I.E.L.D., and Pierce explained that it was because he felt Fury was the best at what he did, as well as being the most ruthless person he'd ever met.
 's secrets online]]
Fury and Romanoff revealed that they intended to release all of S.H.I.E.L.D. and Hydra's files onto the internet, exposing Pierce as a traitor, but Pierce remained confident as he had ensured that Fury's clearance had already been wiped from the system. However, Fury replied that to stay ahead of him, Pierce needed to keep both eyes open, thus revealing he had a security contingency in place should S.H.I.E.L.D.'s arsenal fall into the wrong hands. Fury then used his blind eye, which Pierce had forgotten to delete from the retinal scan, to unlock the system.
 ]]
When Pierce attempted to turn the tables on his situation, killing all the members of the Council and trying to take Romanoff hostage, Fury was left with no choice but to surrender to save his friend's life. However, when Romanoff used a Taser Disk to disable the miniature bomb attached to her, Fury took the opportunity to shoot Pierce twice in the chest, killing the secretary and leaving his body behind as he helped Romanoff get back to her feet.
 
Fury and Romanoff escaped in a helicopter and witnessed Rogers successfully complete their mission, destroying all of the Helicarriers while battling the Winter Soldier. As Fury flew the Helicopter, one of the Insight Helicarriers crashed into the side of the Triskelion, causing Sam Wilson to run for his life until he leaped from the window and barely managed to land inside the helicopter thanks to Fury's exceptional piloting skills.
 
Rogers managed to survive his battle with the Winter Soldier and their mission was complete, resulting in the world learning of Hydra's attempt to take over the world. Following the subsequent fall of S.H.I.E.L.D., Fury went into hiding, burning his possessions and replacing his eyepatch with a pair of sunglasses, along with a wardrobe change, to blend into a crowd. Only a select few others were given knowledge of his survival, including Eric Koenig and Phil Coulson. 

#### Departing

 and Wilson]]
 
Fury went to one of his fake gravesites to talk with Steve Rogers, Sam Wilson, and Natasha Romanoff before he went into hiding. He prepared to depart for Europe, intending to seek out and take down all of the remaining Hydra cells. Fury asked if Falcon would like to join him there, but Wilson refused, stating that he was a soldier, not a spy. As they shook hands, Fury reminded them not to tell anyone of his survival. 
 before leaving]]
Fury later guided Phil Coulson to a secure S.H.I.E.L.D. base in the Canadian wilderness, using Coulson's S.H.I.E.L.D. badge to send the base's coordinates. Coulson took a leap of faith in assuming that Fury and not Hydra had sent the coordinates. Once at Providence, Eric Koenig assured Coulson that Fury was alive, but that only they, Hill, and a few Avengers were aware of this. Koenig instructed Coulson to keep it secret from his team for the time being. 
 
While Fury remained under the radar, Melinda May confronted Maria Hill to find out who led Project T.A.H.I.T.I., so Hill simply told her the cryptic answer that Fury had given her. May then suggested that Hill ask Fury herself, but Hill quickly said that Fury was still dead. May, doubting this, replied that she would believe that when she saw it herself. Later, May realized what Fury meant by his riddle and went out to recover the video hidden inside of Coulson's grave. 

#### Rescuing Fitz and Simmons

 and Leo Fitz]]
 
On his way to Europe, Fury received a weak distress call which led him to Jemma Simmons and Leo Fitz, who were stranded in the ocean. He managed to rescue both of them, although Fitz suffered brain damage from the ordeal. When Simmons awoke while being treated, however, she was able to provide him with the information he needed to find Phil Coulson. Fury headed to the Cybertek Manufacturing Facility where Coulson was involved with a fight against Hydra. 

#### Battle at Cybertek

 the Destroyer Gun]]
 
Fury managed to locate Phil Coulson in a fierce battle against John Garrett, who had gained super strength, as Coulson crawled for cover he found Fury waiting for him, joking about his current appearance since going underground. Although Coulson was furious about being kept in the dark about Project T.A.H.I.T.I., they agreed it was best to focus on defeating Garrett, so Fury supplied Coulson with the Destroyer Armor Prototype Gun. Together they fought Garrett, who had become extremely powerful due to being injected with the GH.325 serum.
 fighting John Garrett]]
While Coulson blasted away his bodyguards, Garrett was able to survive when Fury shot him multiple times in the chest due to his new enhanced healing and began mocking Fury and Coulson. As Garrett continued to monologue about his plans, Fury was able to correct him when he misquoted one of Fury's speeches, making it clear that his mindset was all wrong. However, Skye managed to communicate with Deathlok who betrayed Garrett and killed him by crushing his head while Fury and Coulson looked on without sympathy. 

#### A New Foundation

 Director of S.H.I.E.L.D.]]
 
On the Bus, Phil Coulson, accompanied by Melinda May, infuriated, yelled at Fury because he proceeded to use the Project T.A.H.I.T.I. on him even after Coulson told him that the procedure was dangerous, especially since it was meant to resurrect a fallen Avenger. Fury told Coulson that he brought Coulson back because, in his eyes, Coulson was an Avenger, one of the few people that he trusted and told Coulson that S.H.I.E.L.D.'s goal was founded on the purest of ideas: protection. He then gave Coulson the Toolbox, a device that contained everything Coulson would need to rebuild S.H.I.E.L.D. and appointed him as the new Director.
 
Once he had told him that how S.H.I.E.L.D. proceeded from here was up to Coulson, Fury then got up and prepared to leave the Bus, telling Coulson that he intended to put his focus on having his feet on the ground rather than having a view of everything like he had as Director of S.H.I.E.L.D. When Coulson suggested that he meant he would disappear, Fury laughed and lifted up his sunglasses to reveal his scarred eye, telling Coulson with a smile that he should know him better than that as he would be everywhere, he then turned around he walked away, leaving S.H.I.E.L.D. in the best hands. 

### Ultron Offensive

#### Advising the Avengers

 's plans for genocide]]
 
In 2015, when Tony Stark inadvertently created an artificial intelligence robot known as Ultron in 2015, his creation immediately turned against humanity and declared war with mankind. The Avengers battled Ultron and the Maximoff twins whom Ultron had recruited; however, the battle left almost all Earth's Mightiest Heroes wounded both physically and mentally.
 ]]
The team traveled to the Barton Homestead where Fury was waiting. Fury spoke to Stark in private and tried to get his mind back on track after Wanda Maximoff had used her powers to make Stark see visions of a terrible future in which the Avengers had been killed. When Stark claimed that he would be responsible for the deaths of his friends, Fury reminded him that he did not invent the concept of hate and war, but he could fight against them.
 ]]
Having revealed his survival to the rest of the Avengers, Fury and the team discussed their next move. Natasha Romanoff mocked Stark for his failure to save the world and Fury tried to offer them all the confidence to go into battle again to save the world. Romanoff also commented that she had hoped Fury would have more to offer but he insisted that this team was enough and together they could stand and outwit and defeat Ultron and his army.
 ]]
Eventually, Bruce Banner worked out that Ultron's next move would be to force Helen Cho to build him a new body out of vibranium and the Scepter, one that if he was able to use, he would be too powerful to stop, so they got ready to investigate in Seoul. As the team prepared for their next battle with Ultron, Fury spoke to Stark and requested Maria Hill's assistance with the next stage in his plan to help the Avengers, which he accepted without any hesitation. 

#### Battle of Sokovia

 's army]]
 
Fury had secretly been working with Phil Coulson on a project known as the Theta Protocol, a hidden Helicarrier kept completely off records for emergency use only. With Coulson's and Maria Hill's help, Fury gathered together a team of former S.H.I.E.L.D. agents and took possession of the Helicarrier. While the Avengers continued their battle with Ultron's army, Fury arrived in the Helicarrier and used the Lifeboats to take the civilians to safety; he sent War Machine into the battle to fight the army of Ultron robots.
 ]]
Midway through the battle, one of the Ultron Sentries crashed onto the bridge of the Helicarrier and attempted to kill the crew inside, going straight for Cameron Klein. Although Hill shot at the robot multiple times, this did not seem to slow the machine down. Fury finally managed to destroy it by stabbing it through the head with a piece of debris. With Fury's help, the Avengers were able to destroy Ultron and save thousands of lives. 

#### New Avengers

 ]]
 
Fury received information from S.H.I.E.L.D. about where Hulk and the Quinjet may have crashed. Fury later arrived at the Avengers Compound in upstate New York and told Natasha Romanoff the last known location of the Avengers Quinjet, which Hulk had taken at the end of the battle. He suggested that Banner had likely escaped and gone to live in peace. Romanoff asked Fury if he had known she and Banner would get feelings for each other; Fury answered that he had simply hoped for the best and had gotten a great team for them to use. 

### Leading His Crew

 
In the wake of dissolution of the Avengers in 2016, which had been due to the actions of Helmut Zemo, Fury began operating under a private crew of his own, with hand-selected operatives. He was met by Maria Hill at his safehouse to discuss recent events of that conflict, which included the falling out between Tony Stark and Steve Rogers and the imprisonment of Rogers' entire team at the Raft. Sometime later, Fury met with Rogers, who was now a fugitive, to convince him to contact Stark and work things out in the wake of their disagreement, although this seemed like an impossible task. Fury and Hill would continue to lay low for the next few years without much interference. 

### Infinity War

#### Snap

 talking about Wakanda]]
 
In May 2018, Fury began investigating the aliens who had arrived. He received a call from his wife Varra, who playfully threatened him that if he kept chasing aliens, he would lose the alien he married. Fury then met up with Maria Hill and the pair drove through Atlanta and asked for updates on Tony Stark's location after he had disappeared into a spaceship. Hill replied they had found nothing despite an extensive search around the world. She then informed Fury of unidentified objects detected over in Wakanda, indicating that something serious was happening there.
 
Before Fury could then order Hill to notify Cameron Klein where they would meet, a car spiraled out of control right in front of them and crashed, blocking their route. When Hill stepped out of Fury's car to check whether the occupants were injured, she simply noted nobody was in it, unaware that it was due to the Snap. The duo began to notice civilians disappearing and a helicopter colliding into a nearby building.
 ]]
As Fury instructed Hill to call control for a code red, she alerted him that she was disappearing herself, and he watched in horror with nothing he could do to save her. Fury raced back to his car and grabbed his pager, sending out an emergency alert to Captain Marvel. Mere seconds later, his hand vanished, and Fury cursed as he disappeared. 

### Blip Resurrection

#### Battle of Earth Aftermath

 
Five years later, as a result of the Blip, Fury was restored to life. Upon his resurrection, Fury discovered about the Battle of Earth and that several Avengers, including Carol Danvers, had spilled blood during the conflict. Realizing the dangerous potential of having superpowered DNA left unattended, Fury organized for his secret Skrull unit, led by Gravik, to use their shapeshifting abilities to infiltrate the salvaging operations and recover the DNA. 
 's funeral]]
Fury was given a pair of glasses belonging to Tony Stark that housed the E.D.I.T.H. artificial tactical intelligence system, and was instructed to bequeath the glasses to Peter Parker, having been made aware that Parker was Spider-Man. Fury then attended Stark's funeral at his house, where he stood silently on the porch and briefly reunited with Danvers. While at the funeral, Fury noticed Parker in attendance, and was going to introduce himself and deliver the glasses but changed his mind, feeling that the time was not right nor appropriate. 

#### Returning to Europe

Placing the collection of Avengers' DNA into a vial, which he referred to as the Harvest, Fury flew to Finland and hid the vial in one his fake gravestones. Fury then traveled to London and reunited with his wife Varra. However, Fury suffered from a crisis of faith following the Snap and struggled to resume his relationship with his wife. 

#### Building S.A.B.E.R.

 ]]
 
In the aftermath of the Blip, the U.S. government elected to create an organization named S.A.B.E.R. and deployed a station in orbit. Wanting to leave Earth, Fury accepted an offer to join S.A.B.E.R. as an Agent in order to be relocated to the space station. Less than a month later, Fury was informed of the Westview Anomaly and that Monica Rambeau was involved. Fury then sent a Skrull to bring Rambeau to the space station. 
 
Still needing to fulfil the task that Tony Stark left to him, Fury contacted Talos and Soren in 2024 to impersonate him and Maria Hill respectively, allowing Talos to take command over his crew. Fury then gave Talos the E.D.I.T.H. glasses to deliver to Peter Parker and informed Talos of Parker's identity as Spider-Man.About a week later, while enjoying a moment of relaxation on the station, Fury was contacted by Talos and was informed of Mysterio's actions and how they had been tricked. Fury then disconnected the call mid-conversation and merely told the other S.A.B.E.R. agents to get back to work. 

### Secret Invasion

#### Returning to Earth

 ]]
 
Working daily on S.A.B.E.R. Space Station, Fury had effectively cut all ties to Earth until he got a message from Maria Hill in November 2026, saying that Skrulls had invaded Earth. Fury was skeptical, but knew that he owed it to Talos and felt responsible for the invasion. Fury returned in his ship, having grown out his beard and ditched the eye patch. He slowly limped his way over to Hill, trying to keep weight off his hurt leg. The two then reunited and hugged.
 ]]
Fury and Hill made their way to a safe house where Hill who told him Talos was upstairs. Fury limped through into the room where he saw Talos and a plant. His old friend simply explained that the plant, Santo Millika, was a Skrull plant that Soren often planted in places where she stayed. Without saying another word, Fury walked over to Talos and held him close, forehead to forehead, saying he was sorry that Soren was killed. Talos simply said under his grief that Soren loved Fury.
 's invasion]]
Following this moment of sincerity, they went downstairs and talked about the new threat. Hill brought out a tablet and talked about Gravik's movement to try to infiltrate Earth as New Skrullos. Talos sadly explained that if Gravik succeeded, the human race would cease to exist. Fury jerked up out of his chair at the sound of this, but fixed his composure and said he was going on a walk. Talos advised against it, but Fury did not care. 

#### Reunion with Sonya Falsworth

 ]]
 
Fury walked alone in the night and saw a little girl with a ball. He glanced at the girl, who stared back. The girl's mom then came over and took her away, worried for her safety. Fury brushed this off and kept walking until he was suddenly ambushed. The enemies put a bag over his head and brought him into a car.
 again]]
Fury then heard an old friend, Sonya Falsworth, talking about her excitement before having her men take off Fury's hood. He greeted Falsworth and made sure she knew he let her kidnap him. The two talked with Fury hoping to be allies. However, Falsworth claimed not to know anything about the Skrulls. Fury was quick to point out that he knew she was lying and walked around the room, discretely planting a camera on an owl clock. Staying secretive, he pointed out the many clocks she had on her wall. As they kept talking, Fury realized that the alliance was going nowhere and saw himself out. 

#### Questioning Vasily Poprishchin

 meets "Vasily Poprishchin"]]
 
The next day, Fury and Talos made their way to Vasily Poprishchin, knowing that he had a bomb that Gravik wanted. He walked in and immediately sat down in a chair, angering Poprishchin, who said it was priceless. Fury simply told him everything was priceless until it got hailed by bullets. When Poprishchin talked about his wife, Fury was quick to ask Talos, calling him R. Keller, if Poprishchin had a wife.
 " under fire]]
Talos confirmed that he did, but it was an ex-wife who lived in Florida. This prompted Fury to claim it was a lie, and warned that nobody got two lies. He then moved on, asking if there were any more chairs, or perhaps a bomb. Poprishchin claimed he had no idea what Fury was talking about, so Fury called it lie number two. He then aimed his gun to shoot, bewildering Poprishchin. Before Poprishchin could make a move, Talos charged at him, although Poprishchin was aware that "Keller" was Talos.
 " to save Talos]]
As he and Talos fought, Poprishchin then revealed himself as a Skrull as well. The two fought and Fury aimed his weapon just in case. Talos told Fury to fall back as he believed he could handle it. Fury complied, but was worried. When Poprishchin got the upper hand, Fury shot and killed the skrull. A disappointed Talos remarked that he told Fury to stand down, but was only helped up by Fury. The group then ran outside as Maria Hill had a lead. They followed the lead to Talos' daughter, G'iah, who was working for Gravik. 

#### Conversation with Maria Hill

 
 
Fury went to a bar, where he intended to meet Maria Hill. Fury walked in by himself and asked for a drink, only to be brushed off by the bartender. Fury looked at himself in a mirror, when from a customer said that he was not who he used to be. Fury bought the man a drink, surprising the customer, who pointed out that it was vodka. Fury showed that he indeed had money before taking his drink and walked over to Hill.
 sharing a drink at a bar]]
The two talked about that confrontation, and Fury told Hill that it was an old trick that he used to keep the Cold War from getting hot. When he used a slur to describe himself, Hill called him out on the use of the word. Fury simply said that she was not allowed to say it, but he was. The mood then shifted as Hill talked to Fury about his time in space and how he made it clear he did not want to come back.
 talk about him]]
Fury pointed out that Hill called him, but Hill assured him that she only did because Talos wanted her to. Hill then told Fury that he was old, had a limp, and was not prepared for the fight ahead of them. Hill reminded him that he was always three steps ahead, saying that now he was three steps behind and had to watch his footing. She continued to say that he was not the same since the Blip and he needed a warning. Fury then went home and reflected on his death in the Snap. 

#### Unity Day Bombing

 carrying a bomb]]
 
The next day, Fury, Maria Hill and Talos went to Vossoyedineniye Square. Talos assured them that G'iah was on their side and had claimed that bombs were in bags with infrared marks on them. Fury turned on his Infrared Glasses to see. As he looked for the bags, he noticed the same little girl with the ball from the other night.
 in the crowd]]
Fury loosely followed the girl, who went behind a truck and shapeshifted into the bar patron from the previous night while glaring at Fury. The Skrull continued to reveal that each stranger he had interacted with since returning was a Skrull. The Skrull revealed himself to be Gravik, so Fury pulled his gun, ready to fire. Gravik simply raised his hand, revealing an igniter. He then pressed a button, setting off the bombs. Fury lunged back out of the way and tried to find Hill.
 as she dies]]
He walked some more until he heard a gun shot. He followed it to see Hill dying on the ground, having been shot. Fury ran over, yelling her name. He looked over Hill's body as she said Fury had shot her. Fury saw Gravik leaving and assured her it was not him as Hill died. Fury was pulled away by Talos in disguise, prompting Fury to shout and demand to know what Talos was doing. 

#### Arguing with Talos

 ]]
 
Fury and Talos took a train to Warsaw, when they were approached by Russian forces. Fury hid while Talos disguised himself and lured them away. Fury returned and sat down, asking if he had heard from G'iah. Talos said that he had not heard anything. Fury told Talos about his and his mother playing Tell Me Something I Don't Know, suggesting they play themselves. Fury asked about the destruction of Skrullos, so Talos said that the million remaining Skrulls who were left after their fight against the Kree had fled. Fury asked about the Skrulls who had left, prompting Talos to confess that all million of them had come to Earth.
 for withholding secrets]]
Fury got upset, but Talos simply explained that every Skrull which wasn't in Dro'ge's colony accepted his call. Talos defended himself, scolding him for setting the terms and disappearing in the Snap and then again to work on S.A.B.E.R. Fury pointed out that Talos knew how to contact him but did not, speculating that it was because Talos did not want Fury to know about the Skrulls. Talos expressed his hope that humans and Skrulls could live together, but Fury countered that humans could not coexist with each other, much less another species. The train came to a stop as Fury got angry, so he kicked Talos out. As Talos left, Fury sat in the train with the ramifications of the number of Skrulls on Earth. 

#### Elizabeth Hill's Grief

 ]]
 
Fury reached London, where Maria Hill's body was being processed onto a plane. Elizabeth Hill saw Fury and approached him and asked how Maria died, so Fury noted that it happened quickly. Elizabeth scolded Fury for giving her a platitude, noting that she had not even been told where Hill died.
 really died]]
Fury explained that she had been killed in Moscow while falling into a trap that was set for Fury, prompting Elizabeth to blame Fury for Maria's death. Elizabeth got upset with Fury and told him how much Maria believed in him. Elizabeth told Fury not to let Maria's death be in vain before returning to her plane as Fury sat with her words. 

#### Meeting with James Rhodes

 
Fury learned that James Rhodes was in the United Kingdom, so he called Rhodes and commented on his suit. Fury asked for a meeting, and Rhodes scolded him for his involvement in the bombing. However, Rhodes agreed to meet at Burner's Tavern.
 about Skrulls]]
When Fury arrived at the meeting, he was searched and sat with Rhodes, who said that Fury should be worried about going to jail, claiming to be the last friend Fury has. Fury told Rhodes that he was trying to stop the attack, but Rhodes scolded him for failing. "Ruben Steiner" gave the pair a drink, when Fury suggested that there were Skrulls in his security detail, prompting Rhodes to reveal that he was part of a meeting during which he learned of the existence of Skrulls. Fury said that they were invading, so Rhodes suggested calling in the Avengers. However, Fury insisted it was a bad idea, since the Skrulls could replicate the Avengers and make them out to be terrorists.
 
Fury told Rhodes not to make the issue political, pointing out that as black men in influential positions, they should be helping each other and owe that to each other. "Steiner" approached Rhodes and said that a car was outside, which Rhodes revealed was for Fury. Rhodes summarized Fury's request and commented that they did not take power from mediocre white men to give it to mediocre black men, insulting Fury. Rhodes told Fury that he was being fired by the United States government, upsetting Fury. Rhodes said that he volunteered to be the one to fire Fury, saying that Fury earned the heat. Fury got up and took "Steiner's" gun, saying that he would not be giving up the fight. He left the restaurant and went to sit on a nearby bench as he dealt with his exasperation. 

### Free Agent

#### Returning to His Wife

 ]]
 
Fury then retrieved a car he had been storing and drove to his home, where he found Varra cooking. Varra looked at Fury and commented that he had forgotten his wedding ring, so Fury went to retrieve it and put it on. The two then kissed and hugged as they were reunited. Fury made breakfast for Varra the next morning as "Chris Stearns" reported on the television set about the rise in aggression. Varra turned the television off and made fun of Fury's cooking, commenting that food cooked differently in space. Varra asked what made Fury return to Earth, so Fury offered to apologize for leaving. However, Varra clarified that she was not upset that he left, but rather that he stayed in space for years. Fury said that he retired and thought about getting revenge.
 's cell phone]]
Fury asked if Varra had contacted Gravik, saying that he wanted to be sure of who Fury had become while he was gone. Varra get upset with Fury, explaining that she had become a widow during his death in the Snap and thne did not get a chance to work through her pain with him before he left for the S.A.B.E.R. space station. Varra was interrupted by a phone call, which Fury told her not to ignore. Varra told the caller that she did not have the information they requested, so Fury asked if it was important. Varra said that it was not important and kissed Fury before walking away. Fury looked at Varra's phone and put a bug on it to ensure she was not working with the Skrull Resistance. 

#### Making Amends with Talos

 for help]]
 
Fury found Talos at a bar and sat with him, but Talos scolded Fury for coming to ask for help. Fury told Talos that he had a lead on a Skrull in the United States government who was in London, but Talos simply asked how he could help. Fury claimed to have told him, but Talos said that he would not be operating under the implicit understanding that Talos would help any more and asked Fury to ask for help. Fury hesitantly complied, and the two left together.
 for information]]
As Fury and Talos drove together, and Talos explained that G'iah gave him information regarding a planned attack coming from the HMS Neptune. Fury called Sonya Falsworth, asking about the Neptune. Falsworth demanded an apology for attaching a bug to her owl clock, saying that she was renaming it from "Hoot" to "Nicholas Fury" due to the damage to its eye. Fury explained that Neptune planned to fire at a United Nations delegation due to infiltration from Skrulls. Falsworth said that she was dealing with her own infiltration since someone had leaked the location which she used which was meant to be secret, but she was able to reveal that the commander of the ship was Bob Fairbanks. Falsworth then sent a picture and address for Fairbanks, so Fury and Talos went to Portsmouth.
 ' talk about their history]]
As they drove through Portsmouth, Talos commented on the unusual nature of the relationship between dogs and humans, specifially noted that it was odd that it was acceptable for humans to pick up dogs' feces. Fury suggested that he had been cleaning up Talos' messes, upsetting Talos. Talos reminded Fury that the Skrulls had been Fury's spy network since the 1990s and had been responsible for Fury's ascension of the ranks in S.H.I.E.L.D. and the information he received. During Talos' speech, Fury pulled up at Fairbanks' house and yelled at Talos for scolding him. The two then prepared to confront Fairbanks. 

#### Attacking Bob Fairbanks

 ]]
 
Fury watched as Talos attempted to enter Bob Fairbanks' home, but got his cover blown and had to take out a guard. As Talos entered the house, Fury fought guards outside. As Fury entered the house, he called for Talos to talk to him over their communicators. "Talos" referred to Fury by his first name and told him where he was, causing Fury to realize that the Skrull impersonating Fairbanks had overpowered Talos. Talos found Fairbanks' son, Zachary, and took him hostage, bringing Zachary into the room where Bob and Talos were. "Bob" attempted to negotiate, but ultimately released Talos, so Fury released Zachary. Fury asked Talos to find something to tie "Bob" up and sarcastically thanked himself for rescuing Talos before asking what "Bob" was working on.
 "]]
Fury attempted to question "Fairbanks" but the Skrull refused to answer. Talos arrived and offered protection against Gravik, but "Fairbanks" simply insulted Talos. Fury suggested that Talos shapeshift into "Fairbanks" and order the strike to be aborted, but Talos explained that there was a password to do so which only "Fairbanks" knew. Fury got frustrated and shot "Fairbanks" in the leg, threatening to shoot again if he did not give the code, but Talos got frustrated and took the gun from him. Fury yelled at Talos that they only had minutes to get the code.
 kill "Bob Fairbanks"]]
As it got closer to the time of launch, "Fairbanks" taunted Talos about G'iah, prompting Talos to shoot and kill him, surprising Fury. Talos got the password from G'iah and entered it, ending the launch. The two watched the computer as UN-1 safely passed the submarine. As Fury and Talos dealth with "Fairbanks'" body, Fury asked why Talos did not choose to fight with Gravik, given that the two agree. Talos explained that he chose not to fight alongside Gravik so that he could continue to fight with Fury. 

#### Marital Issues

 talking to Raava]]
 
Fury listened to the bug he had installed on Varra's phone and listened to her talk to the Raava, the Skrull who was impersonating James Rhodes. He heard Raava threaten to kill Varra if she did not comply. He continued to listen as Varra tried to save him by saying he had gotten old adn tired and no longer posed a threat to the Skrull Resistance. However, Raava simply reiterated her threat, so Fury took out his listening device and sat, reflecting on what he heard.
 ]]
Fury left his wedding at the door and went into the kitchen to make tea as Varra returned home. She asked about the ring, so Fury claimed to have come in through the back and forgotten. Fury claimed to be needed at work and brought tea for Varra before sitting across from her. He acknowledged his mistake in neglecting his responsibilities as Varra's husband, but added that even knowing Varra needed to kill him, he would not have done anything different. The two placed their guns on the table, and Fury asked Varra to tell him about the person she impersonated. Varra told him about Priscilla Davis, a scientist who Varra got to know before her death. Varra explained that she asked Davis if she wanted to fall in love, and that Davis made Varra promise to bury her at sea, be a daughter to her parents, and to never hurt Fury.
 choose not to kill each other]]
Fury and Varra quoted Varra's favorite poem, and once they finished, the shot the wall behind each other rather than killing the other. Fury commented on what the incidented represented about the status of their marriage before warning that the Resistance would be searching for her. Varra said that she could take care of herself before he got up to leave. Varra stopped Fury to ask if he would have loved her in her true form, but Fury simply left, commenting that they would never know. 

#### Conversation with Raava

 ]]
 
Fury went to Raava's hotel room and broken in, bringing a thirty-year-old bottle of alcohol with him containing a liquid tracker. Raava found Fury and asked why he was there, so Fury claimed that he did not like the way their conversation ended. He offered Raava a drink, saying that it would be a mistake to waste it when Raava expressed concerned about Fury poisoning the drink or putting nanotechnology in it.
 's threat]]
Raava asked for the real reason Fury was there, so he explained that he learned about Skrulls infiltrating the United States government, offering to stay quiet about it in exchange for his job back. Raava expressed disbelief, but shared footage of "Fury" killing Maria Hill. Fury said it was Gravik, but Raava claimed that no one would believe him. Raava took the rest of the drink and said that she could keep the video hidden so long as Fury stayed quiet about the Skrulls. Fury returned to his car with Talos, who admired the use of the tracker. They watched Raava get into her car and started following her. 

#### Saving President Ritson

 ' helicopter]]
 
While following Raava, Fury and Talos saw a large explosion and went to help, where they saw President James Ritson's motorcade being attacked by Skrulls. Talos commented on the state of the fight, but Fury said it would get worse if they did not save Ritson, so the two armed themselves. Fury blew up the Skrulls' remaining helicopter and joined the fight on the ground, shooting and killing Skrulls. They made their way to the President's car, realizing that he was unconscious. Talos started to punch the reinforced glass on the window while Fury continued to fire at the Skrulls. Talos was shot, but kept punching, so Fury kept returning fire. One of the United States Secret Service agents realized that Talos was an alien, but Fury shouted that he was with them and got the agent to stand down.
 heal himself]]
Talos successfully broke through the glass, so Fury pulled Ritson out of the car and told Talos that he would return for him. Fury then brought Ritson to his own car and sat him in the passenger seat, turning down an agent's request to put the President in his car. Ritson turned and saw a Secret Service agent holding Talos, but realized it was a Skrull and demanded that the Skrull release Talos. Fury shot the Skrull, who revealed himself to be Gravik and stabbed Talos, killing him. Fury shot Gravik in the face, but Gravik healed using Extremis abilities. Gravik was taken away by Pagon, and Fury looked between Talos and Ritson before deciding to drive away with Ritson. 

#### Protecting the President

 ]]
 
Fury drove James Ritson to King George VII Private Hospital, where the doctors prepped him for treatment. As Ritson was brought to his operation room, Fury tried to tell the President that Russia was not responsible and not to trust "James Rhodes," but the doctors asked him to stay back since he did not have the proper clearance to proceed. Fury saw the news report on Talos' involvement in helping the President before sitting in front of the door with his gun, ready to protect Ritson.
 ]]
Raava, still disguised as James Rhodes, arrived at the hospital, and Fury pushed him against a wall, pointing a gun at his neck. Fury insisted that he would not allow Raava near the President, but Raava said that he could only out her by killing her, which he would not do. Raava then revealed that he had leaked the footage of "Fury" killing Maria Hill, so Fury left. Fury was stopped by a group of agents pointing their guns with him, and Raava threatened to have him killed if he approached the President again. Fury told Raava to pass a message to Gravik that he was going to attack the Skrull, but Raava told him to pass the message along himself. 

#### Meeting with G'iah

 
 
Fury met with G'iah at the same place he promised to protect the Skrulls years prior. G'iah reminisced about playing underneath the mural, but admitted to having forgotten what it symbolized. Fury explained that the area they were in was a haven for people from the West Indies after World War II. Fury explained that the place gave him strength like her father. Fury attempted to comfort her, but G'iah cut her off, expressing her frustration that he died on a foreign planet. Fury warned G'iah not to let grief consume her and revealed that he knew that she was a Super Skrull. Fury asked what DNA Gravik had stolen, so G'iah answered that he had samples from Cull Obsidian and Flora colossi, adding that he could not find the Harvest.
 will be alright]]
G'iah asked to bury her father, so Fury gave her his keys and told her to go to Varra. Law enforcement arrived, so Fury left, telling G'iah that he was going to Finland. He asked if G'iah would be alright, but G'iah told him not to worry about her. Fury then left the building the back way and avoided Interpol. 

#### Reunion with Rick Mason

 's threat]]
 
Fury received a call from Gravik, offering to call off his next attack if Fury delivered the Harvest. Fury asked about the attack, so Gravik explained that President James Ritson would bomb New Skrullos if Fury did not deliver, killing innocent Skrulls and starting a third World War. He told Fury to bring iodide pills to combat the facility's radiation before hanging up.
 ]]
Fury boarded the plane he had gotten and was greeted by Rick Mason, who commented on his Interpol Red Notice. Fury said that he would have wanted to be on the Helicarrier, but Mason explained that it had been taken out of use, suggesting that Fury should have been as well. Mason gave Fury fake identification documents and suggested that Fury nap, saying he seemed grumpy. 

#### Traveling with Sonya Falsworth

 discuss his mask]]
 
Fury took on the identity which Rick Mason provided for him and flew to Finland using the Photostatic Veil. Due to the disguise and passport, Fury was allowed to enter the country and met with Sonya Falsworth in a parking lot, removing the veil. Falsworth commented about the veil only being able to cloak Fury's face, but Fury said a newer version he did not have could cover the rest of a person's body. Falsworth put on rap music, which surprised Fury, and the two started driving.
 of the Harvest]]
Fury asked why Falsworth believed "James Rhodes" to be in charge of the United States' fight against Skrulls, so Falsworth explained that she provided corrobation on the existence of New Skrullos when "Rhodes" asked for it. Fury revealed that Rhodes was a Skrull, shocking Falsworth as Fury commented on Falsworth's belief that Fury had fallen out of practice. Falsworth asked why Gravik would attack his own people, so Fury explained that he wanted it as leverage to make Fury deliver the Harvest. Falsworth asked about the Harvest, so Fury explained that it was the collected DNA of every Avenger which had bled during the Battle of Earth. Falsworth suggested that since Fury sent Gravik to collect the Harvest, he was responsible for the invasion, which Fury agreed with, adding that it was the reason he returned.
 
The two approached one of Fury's many fake graves, and Falsworth asked why Fury did not call the Avengers. Fury said that the fight was personal and that he did not want humanity to rely on superheroes, saying that they could not defend the world the way Fury could. He noted that his brain and his heart were his only powers, saying that humanity would be hopeless if it were not enough. Fury explained that he had several graves, but chose to hide the Harvest in Finland because it reminded him of his and Varra's honeymoon, revealing that he chose the spot because Skrulls liked the cold. This caused Falsworth to realize Fury had married a Skrull, so Fury explained that she understood why the invasion was personal.
 
Fury breathed on the grave, causing it to open and reveal the Harvest. Falsworth expressed doubts that giving Gravik the Harvest was smart, but Fury retrieved it anyway and Falsworth agreed to the plan. Fury then went into a mausoleum where he retrieved a new leather jacket and eyepatch, putting them both on and changing his beanie. Fury got a gun and called G'iah, telling her that it was time to finish the fight. 
 ]]
Fury called Varra, who acknowledged that he had not called her cell phone in years. Fury confessed that he had dialed the number many times without letting the call go through. She asked if Fury was far, so Fury explained that it made more sense to move in the direction he was going rather than return. Varra asked if Fury would be returning, but Fury simply ended the call, telling Varra to take care of herself. 

#### Convincing Ritson

 ]]
 
Fury met with G'iah and gave her the Harvest to deliver to Gravik while disguised as himself. The real Fury and Sonya Falsworth then went to King George VII Private Hospital, where Falsworth called Raava and claimed that Fury planned to kill U.S. President James Ritson. Fury and Falsworth then incapacitated each agent of the United States Secret Service present as the two finally reached Ritson. Falsworth held Raava at gunpoint while Fury used a tranquilizer dart against the Ruben Steiner and the last remaining agent, revealing himself to Ritson. Ritson pointed a gun at Fury, who calmly suggested he point it at Raava instead, assuring the President that he had no intention to hurt him.
 ]]
Fury revealed to Ritson that James Rhodes had been replaced by a Skrull and was being kept in the site that Ritson planned to bomb. He elaborated that Rhodes was among the many world officials who had been replaced, saying that bombing the compount would mean bombing the humans being held there. Raava started to get through to Ritson, so Fury again insisted that Ritson was looking at his enemy, adding that hesitance from Ritson would allow the Skrull Resistance to win. Falsworth asked what Ritson could lose by delaying the strike, and Fury agreed, offering to be sent to prison if he was wrong. Raava stole Falsworth's gun and tried to kill Fury, but Fury was faster in stealing Ritson's gun and killing Raava. Ritson watched Raava revert to her Skrull form and asked for a cell phone to call off the attack. 

### Return to S.A.B.E.R.

#### Partnering with Varra

 to Varra before leaving]]
 
Fury watched as President James Ritson addressed the United States of America, declaring all species not from Earth to be enemy combatants. He returned home and found Varra in their house, which had taken heavy damage. Fury apologized for not being present as a husband, insisting that she should not have to take care of herself. Varra asked Fury whether he fell in love with her or the face she took on to put him at ease, so Fury told Varra that he loved her. Fury revealed that he was leaving that night, so she said that they would be saying goodbye. Understanding, Fury turned around left, telling Varra that she knew where to find him if she could forgive him.
 disagree on the situation]]
Fury drove to where S.A.B.E.R. would be picking him up and called President Ritson. Ritson expressed relief that they survived the incident at the hospital, and Fury agreed but then scolded Ritson for his hateful speech. He told Ritson that he only made the situation worse, saying that they needed to act before the hit squads which Ritson inspired killed the Skrulls who wanted to help humans. He also noted that vigilantes were killing humans as well, suspecting them of being Skrulls, or getting killed themselves. Ritson reiterated his belief that the war between them was the only possible conclusion and told Fury to get the Skrulls off Earth if he truly cared about them before hanging up.
 to help with the peace talks]]
Fury approached the entry to a ship that would take him to the S.A.B.E.R. Space Station, but got interrupted as Varra drove up to him. Fury told S.A.B.E.R. to wait as Varra got out of the car and went up to him. Varra commented on the peaceful sound of the area, and Fury addressed her as "Priscilla," but Varra then corrected him, saying she would rather use her birth name now that humans knew of the Skrulls' presence on Earth.
 return to S.A.B.E.R. together]]
Fury told Varra that the Kree were open to peace talks with the Skrulls, asking for her help as a diplomat. Fury said that she was better with people, and when Varra tried to say she had her own way, he said that he was tired of it. Fury said that he was better with her and asked her to accompany him, and Varra agreed, but said that she would have to return to her work on Earth afterwards. Varra took her true form and told Fury that she loved him, and Fury replied that he loved her as she was. The two kissed and went onto the ship together, leaving to work on S.A.B.E.R. 

#### Contacting Captain Marvel

 ]]
 
Due to a surge in the Universal Neural Teleportation Network, Fury contacted an old friend, Captain Marvel. The two greeted each other until Fury suddenly heard beeping on Danvers' end, figuring out it was Goose. Looking out the window to space, Fury talked about how his team was able to trace the surge back to planet MB-418. Danvers told him she would take a look.
 ]]
Fury then told her Monica Rambeau and her team would send more information as they acquired it. Danvers asked if Rambeau was okay and fury said yes as she was not the same girl that needed protection. Soon, Fury looked out the window again only to see Rambeau flying out towards the jump point. He asked what she was doing only to hear her say she would get more readings. His communication with her then shorted out. When the radio came back, Fury said how Danvers was on the other line, but Rambeau refused to talk to her. Fury simply said she would need to do so at some point.
 ]]
Danvers then talked with Fury from MB-418, saying how it looked like the jump point was stuck. However, Danvers soon lost contact. Fury tried to get it back but was unable to. Suddenly, he lost contact with everyone. He looked out the window to see Rambeau flying towards the station at great speeds. Fury looked further only to see Rambeau was not in her suit, but instead it was a girl. Fury asked who she was, confused as the girl said she was Ms. Marvel and asked if this was an Avengers test. 

#### A Confusing Scuffle

 intel]]
 
Once Monica Rambeau returned, Fury had gotten intel on Ms. Marvel and gave the informaton to Rambeau. They then entered the S.A.B.E.R. Space Elevator to get to the Khan Residence to talk. On the way, Fury asked for information on what had happened to Rambeau. On the elevator, Fury watched as Rambeau suddenly disappeared as Captain Marvel took her place.
 ]]
Fury just wanted to know how Danvers showed up. Panicking, Danvers explained that the Kree rigged a jump point on MB-418 and she touched it. Fury asked why she touched it and created a rule that she cannot touch stuff anymore. Danvers then showed him her hand to which Fury said scissors beat paper. Danvers got annoyed, repeating that there was weird energy on her hand. Suddenly, Danvers disappeared and Rambeau took her place again.
 ]]
Soon, Rambeau disappeared only to be replaced by Ms. Marvel and some Kree. Fury shielded his face as Ms. Marvel saved him. Fury then watched as Ms. Marvel punched the Kree and looked at Fury for praise. Fury then backed away as Khan spun over a Kree and took their pistol, throwing it to Fury to use. Fury then shot at the Kree and ran away as Khan helped. Once the Kree was defeated, Fury smiled and looked at Khan.
 ]]
When Khan left, Fury found himself going one-on-one with the remaining Kree. He went head-to-head, pushing it into the window as Rambeau arrived, saying how she believed that whenever she would use her powers, she would switch with either Danvers or Khan. Fury then got the upper hand and kicked the Kree back before shooting it, telling her it was a good theory. 

#### Meeting with the Khans

 ]]
 
Fury and Monica Rambeau finally arrived on Earth and got to the Khan Residence. They knocked on the door and Yusuf Khan answered, so fury asked for Kamala Khan. Kamala then rushed into view, excited to see Fury. Fury then called agents to come pick uop the two defeated Kree in the household. He soon got the chance to sit down and started petting Goose as Rambeau talked to the Khans. During the conversation, Rambeau revealed the acronym for S.A.B.E.R., annoying Fury who said it was classified.
 
Still excited, Kamala tried to show her power, only to switch to Captain Marvel. Danvers got up and saw everyone, specifically Rambeau. Fury then told Rambeau to fill Danvers in on her theory of what was happening. Fury listened as Rambeau explained; then he pointed at her, agreeing. As Danvers was talked to, she was told that Kamala would be wherever Danvers was before she swapped. This made Danvers anxious. The group followed Danvers and watched as she flew into the air.
 to fly]]
Suddenly, a scream came from the air as she swapped with Kamala, who found herself falling to the ground. Knowing her family was watching, Fury told Rambeau to fly and catch her. Rambeau said she had no idea how to fly. Fury said she did and remarked to use her black girl magic. Rambeau then lifted off to save Kamala. Fury then watched as the two came hurdling towards the ground only to swap with Danvers. Fury remarked how it was just her. 

#### Taking the Khans

 ]]
 
With the Khan Residence destroyed, Fury took the Khans into S.A.B.E.R. Space Station. In the S.A.B.E.R. Space Elevator on the way up, Fury called Carol Danvers and gave the phone to Muneeba Khan for her to talk to Ms. Marvel. Muneeba did not want Kamala going with Danvers while Yusuf Khan was scared of the elevator. Fury jokingly remarked how they were adjusting well.
 
Meanwhile, Aamir Khan was calling Tyesha Hillman and telling her where they were going, unsure if it was going up or down. Fury confirmed they were going down, then told Aamir he was not allowed to film. Fury then turned the phone back to him, mouthing "help me" to Danvers. They then reached the space station and went into Fury's office. While walking, Fury reported that because of the surges in the Universal Neural Teleportation Network, it seemed like it was effecting the whole area.
 ]]
They transferred the call to Fury's monitor in his office as Muneeba argued, saying she did not want Kamala on the mission. Monica Rambeau argued that they needed Kamala for the mission as Kamala explained that the enemy had another Quantum Band. Therefore, Muneeba let her go. Fury then told the team that he would do his part in trying to fix the jump points. Once hung up, Fury assured the Khans that Kamala was safe. Suddenly, Goose coughed up some items she ate. As Goose started licking herself, Fury yelled at her to stop. 

#### Destruction to the Station

 
 
Later, Fury was called into a room by Dag and Talia as they had found pink orbs that could be enemy plants. With that to worry about, another surge soon hit the station, weakening it. However, Fury was more concerned about the orbs. He also told Dag to have good news once in a while. Dag then told him that half of the S.A.B.E.R. Escape Pods went down. Fury simply told him that was not good news.
 starts shutting down]]
Again, a surge happened, this time causing the alarms to go off. Talia told Fury that they had to evacuate three hundred fifty people with only fifteen escape pods. Fury told them to fill the remaining pods with as many people as they could then come up with plan B. Fury then walked into the control room to find the main panel on fire. Fury rushed to get a fire extinguisher only to find more of those orbs when he opened up the bay.
 kittens]]
To Fury's shock, the orbs started hatching, revealing they were actually Goose's eggs. Many baby Flerken then appeared. Fury picked up the kitten only for it to eat a desk easily. This prompted Dag to talk about how they were going to die, annoying Fury, who yelled at them to get everyone to the evacuation deck. Fury then got the idea to allow the many Flerken to eat the remaining personnel so they could save everyone easily as they would just need to transport Flerken kitties.
 to protect the Quantum Bands]]
As this plan went into motion, the Marvels arrived to help. Fury then saw Captain Marvel yelling at a Flerken to spit out a person they just ate. Fury told her that that was the plan and explained it. This made Danvers happy as she went to help. With all personnel having been eaten, Fury and the rest got them on an escape pod. Fury then pointed out that Ms. Marvel should not bring her Quantum Band to the enemy. However, Khan told him that she needed it to close the rifts. Fury told her to protect it. 

#### Crash Land on Earth

 to pray]]
 
Once Ms. Marvel said goodbye to her family, the Khans and Fury got in an escape pod and were launched towards Earth. Fury had a little trouble controlling it as the Flerken started spitting out many agents. Aamir Khan started praying and Fury told him to keep going as they needed help. They then crash landed in a park in New York City, much to the annoyance and worry of Muneeba Khan. Fury then got out of his pod and looked up at the sun to see it being eclipsed by an Accuser Warship.
 ]]
The group waited until the Hoopty returned. However, only Ms. Marvel came out. Fury called her over and asked what happened. Khan explained that even though they won, they lost Monica Rambeau as a rift opened and she got stuck inside. Fury was sad but asked what happened to Captain Marvel. Khan explained how she went to fulfill a promise; to reignite Hala's sun. 

#### Dealing with Loss

 ]]
 
The S.A.B.E.R. Space Station soon came back on and the group returned to the station. Fury knocked on the door of Monica Rambeau's office as Dag and Talia were cleaning up her stuff. Fury asked how things were, leading Dag to say all planets were expected to recover. Fury simply said that was not what he meant. Dag could not answer and neither could Fury as he solemly looked down. 

## Abilities

 
 
*Master Tactician: ]] As the former Director of S.H.I.E.L.D., Fury needed to be able to make multiple very important strategic decisions at once. Fury can instantly create strategies and plans several steps ahead of his enemies and allies alike, with Phil Coulson stating that he could see five steps ahead. He is able to elaborate complex strategies and apply them in not just battle, but any other activity as well. Arguably the most important operation in the universe was the Avengers Initiative which was spear headed by Fury despite no one else thinking it would work. Fury has showed foresight by instigating many other operations like Theta Protocol, Phase 2, Project P.E.G.A.S.U.S., Project T.A.H.I.T.I., and Project Insight to counter threats to global security. He had the plan of hiring Georges Batroc to take over the Lemurian Star so that he could send his agents in and get it back from him. This gave Fury a way onto the ship. He was also able to outsmart Alexander Pierce when the latter had forgotten to delete the retina scan of Fury's blind eye from the S.H.I.E.L.D. database. He also had the plan of sending his Skrull friend, Talos to Earth disguised as him so that he could create a secret project in space.
 
*Master Spy: Fury is highly skilled in espionage, stealth, disguise, and infiltration, capable of breaching high-security facilities without being detected. When getting locked in a room with Captain Marvel, Fury used tape to get the finger print off the handle and use it to get them out. When he needed intelligence on Bruce Banner, he sat practically unnoticed among restaurant patrons to observe him. Fury also managed to make the majority of those who knew him to think he was dead, including Hydra and the rest of the world. During his first meeting with Tony Stark, Fury was able to sneak into his mansion without being detected and managed to shut down J.A.R.V.I.S.'s systems. He is such a great spy that he was able to snuff out Hydra's infiltration into S.H.I.E.L.D., this prompted Alexander Pierce to have the Winter Soldier attempt an assassination on Fury. After the attack, the world believed that Fury had died and he was so sneaky that only select people still know he's alive. His fake death was even able to get past Black Widow for a short time before he told her himself. He was able to think of checking the old S.H.I.E.L.D. radars and decipher the codes in order to find Jemma Simmons and Leo Fitz in the middle of the ocean. Quentin Beck was even terrified of Fury finding out his plan that he called him the most dangerous man in the world and threatened to shoot his own partner out of fear.
*Expert Combatant: ' guard]] Due to his CIA and army training, Fury is highly trained in the field of martial arts. While fighting against Talos, Fury was able to hold his own momentarily before being defeated due to his opponent's enhanced strength as a Skrull. He was also able to take down two brainwashed S.H.I.E.L.D. agents with ease while on the Helicarrier. However, his fighting technique has slowly faded away as he almost never goes into the field anymore. However, Fury was still skilled enough to easily overpower one of James Rhodes' bodyguards, putting him into an arm lock while disarming him and breaking the man's wrist.
*Expert Marksman: Fury is also trained to use U.S. military firearms. He is accomplished in artillery such as a Rocket Launcher to accurately disable an F-35 Lightning from taking off to bombed Manhattan. During the Hydra assassination attempt on his life, Fury used the built-in Turret of his personal SUV with expert precision, killing multiple Hydra assassins in quick succession. He also shot and killed Alexander Pierce and the Skrull impersonating Vasily Poprishchin. Fury was also able to shoot and kill several members of the Skrull Resistance using a rifle while aiding the United States Secret Service in defending President Ritson. He also shot Gravik in the face, with the latter only surviving due to his Extremis enhancement, and killed Raava with a shot to the forehead.
*Expert Pilot: Fury was able to pilot a helicopter onto the helipad at the Triskelion and maneuver it through rubble in order to save Sam Wilson during the Triskelion's destruction.
*Bilingualism: Fury is fluent in English, conversational in Russian and can understand Urdu.

## Equipment

### Weapons

Fury has access to an array of S.H.I.E.L.D. weapons, conventional and otherwise. In addition, due to him being the leader of a secret but a covert/military organization, he has access to the most cutting-edge technology S.H.I.E.L.D. has to offer.
* : The SIG Sauer P226 was the standard pistol issued to S.H.I.E.L.D. personnel in the 1990s. Fury carried this handgun during his mission to interrogate Carol Danvers. While it was taken from him as he arrived to the Project P.E.G.A.S.U.S. Facility, he managed to take it again, and he used it to hold Talos at gunpoint when he entered into the Rambeau Residence. He also tried to use it when Starforce arrived at Mar-Vell's Laboratory, but Minn-Erva pointed her weapon at him to make him drop it.
* : The Glock 17 was the standard sidearm used by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, before being replaced by the Smith & Wesson M&P. Fury carried one while he accompanied Tony Stark to his mansion in order to help him overcome his Palladium poisoning finishing Howard Stark's work. He later disarmed "Ruben Steiner" of his sidearm.
* : ]] The Smith & Wesson M&P pistol is the standard sidearm carried by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, and Fury also carried one as his sidearm, using it to fire at Loki while he escaped after having obtained the Tesseract for the first time, when the Helicarrier is attacked, during the Battle at the Triskelion, and to try to kill John Garrett during the Battle at Cybertek. He also carried it while commanding the bridge of the Helicarrier during the Battle of Sokovia, but he did not use it against any of the Ultron Sentries that attacked it. Fury later brought the pistol to Moscow and used it to shoot and kill the Skrull impersonating Vasily Poprishchin. With a threaded barrel now added, Fury carried the pistol when infiltrating the Fairbanks household and held Zachary Fairbanks at gunpoint. He put the pistol on a table when speaking with Varra, who also presented her pistol, and the two shot at each other but intentionally missed. He held Raava at close gunpoint, but he had to leave when footage of "him" shooting Hill surfaced. He also retrieved a new pistol from his hidden facility in Finland.
* : 's unit of Skrulls]] While moving forward, attempting to get close to Ritson's crashed car, Fury used a sawed-off shotgun to shoot and kill any Skrulls who blocked his path, killing them despite their Bulletproof Vests, until Fury and Talos were able to get to Ritson, with Fury then changing weapons to the M4A1.
* : With more Skrulls surrounding him, Fury armed himself with one of the Skrulls' dropped machine guns, shooting back at the attackers, while reinforcements arrived. Fury continued shooting at the Skrulls, while Talos attempted to free Ritson. However, once Talos had been mortally wounded by Pagon, Fury was forced to drop the rifle and prioritise getting Ritson to safety.
* : A heavy rocket launcher that Fury used to disable a F-35 Lightning II that had received orders to drop a nuclear bomb on Manhattan. Though he successfully shot the rocket launcher and prevented the plane from taking off, another F-35 had been ordered to do the same, and Fury was unable to prevent it.
 
*Destroyer Armor Prototype Gun: Fury brought the gun to the Battle at Cybertek so he could give it to Phil Coulson and defeat John Garrett, as well as Garrett's army of Deathlok Soldiers. Following the battle, Fury would leave the gun with Coulson.
 
*Missile Launcher: Upon arriving at Gravik's attempted assassination of President Ritson, Fury and Talos had immediately armed themselves with weapons from the back of Fury's car. Seeking to take out Gravik's biggest weapon, Fury took a missile launcher and shot down Gravik's helicopter, causing it to crash and explode.
*Tranquilizer Pistol: During his infiltration of King George VII Private Hospital, Fury armed himself with a tranquilizer so that he could take down the United States Secret Service agents guarding President Ritson without killing them.
*Kree Pistol: To be added

### Other Equipment

 
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Uniform: A uniform made up of Kevlar and a fire-resistant material whose kindling temperature is 1,700°F (930°C). The uniform includes numerous S.H.I.E.L.D. paraphernalia such a radio-link tie.
 
*Bulletproof Vest: A personal bulletproof vest worn by Fury for protection against projectiles and shrapnel from explosions. His vest protected him getting shot by Clint Barton when he under Loki's control.
*Eye Patch: After getting his eye scratched out by Goose, an alien species known as a Flerken, Fury wore black eyepatches over his blinded eye. He kept one of them in a hidden case inside a fake grave, which he collected before his mission to stop Gravik's plans of world destruction.
*Captain America Card Collection: A vintage card collection of Captain America owned by Phil Coulson. Fury took the cards out of Coulson's locker and smeared them in his blood in order to motivate the Avengers into action against Loki.
 
*Toolbox: A compact digital storage device that holds a collected database of classified S.H.I.E.L.D. files, and additional information. Fury later gave this to Phil Coulson with the purpose of helping him rebuild S.H.I.E.L.D. after an infiltration by Hydra left the organization fractured.
*Mouse Hole: to escape]] Fury had used a Mouse Hole in order to make his escape from his destroyed vehicle during an assassination attempt by the Winter Soldier, cutting through the overturned roof and disappearing into the sewers before the Winter Soldier could catch up with him.
*Tetrodotoxin B: After nearly being assassinated by the Winter Soldier who had shot him through the chest, Fury used this heart-slowing serum created by Bruce Banner to fake his death, allowing his heart rate to be slowed so far that it appeared he had no heartbeat at all.
*Peruvian 0-8-4: Fury kept many items in the Fridge for storage. One of the many items he kept was the Peruvian 0-8-4.
*Gravitonium: Fury kept many items in the Fridge for storage. One of the many items he kept was the Gravitonium.
*Berserker Staff: Fury kept many items in the Fridge for storage. One of the many items he kept was the Berserker Staff.
*Atmospheric Moisture Freezing Device: Fury kept many items in the Fridge for storage. One of the many items he kept was the Atmospheric Moisture Freezing Device.
*Transmitter Pager: Originally an ordinary Earth pager, Captain Marvel upgraded it with Kree technology and returned it to Fury for use strictly in emergencies. Witnessing half of the universe being executed by Thanos, Fury used the pager to sent a distress call to her before he was erased alongside others.
 
*Infrared Glasses: To be added
*Harvest: To be added

### Former Equipment

*Tesseract: The containment unit of the Space Stone. Fury took possession of the Tesseract after Goose regurgitated it from her body and temporarily used it for several undisclosed S.H.I.E.L.D. projects before eventually giving it to Thor following the Battle of New York.

### Vehicles

* : chase Captain Marvel]] This vehicle was issued to standard S.H.I.E.L.D. agents in the 1990s. In 1995, Fury utilized this vehicle with "Phil Coulson" to chase down Captain Marvel.
*Quadjet: After escaping the Skrulls, Fury and Vers flew to Louisiana from the Pegasus base. Norex then turned it into a spaceship and they flew it up to Mar-Vell's Laboratory.
*Modified 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe: Fury drove his computerized with flight capabilities which were armed with machine guns and grenade launchers. When Fury was attacked by Hydra operatives in the streets of Washington, D.C., he was then forced to use whatever defense systems had not been initially damaged to escape, until the Winter Soldier managed to destroy the SUV, forcing Fury to use the Mouse Hole to cut through the roof and get away before he could be assassinated by the Winter Soldier.
* : Fury used this SUV as a mode of transportation since at least 2018. He drove this vehicle with Maria Hill in Atlanta at the time of the Snap.

## Facilities

 
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Field Office: Fury visited the S.H.I.E.L.D. Field Office, examining the body of a dead Skrull to the lab following the conflict with the Skrull. Upon the departure of Captain Marvel and the Skrulls, Fury returned to the field office with Goose.
*Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility: witnessing Loki's arrival]] Fury visited the Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility in order to check a spontaneous activation of the Tesseract. During the operation, a portal was opened and Loki spontaneously appeared from it. After Loki killed most of the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents and controlled Hawkeye, Fury was attacked by Loki's command until he escaped before it got destroyed into the ground.
*Rambeau Residence: Fury and Vers went to Maria Rambeau's house to ask her questions about her relationship with the crash. Soon, Talos showed up and explained to them how the Kree are actually the bad guys.
*Mar-Vell's Laboratory: Fury and the others flew up to the laboratory in space. They encountered Starforce and got captured. However, they were freed when Carol Danvers gained her full power.
*Fury Residence: Fury's private home in London, England, inhabited by his wife Varra.
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Base Camp: Fury set up this camp to search for Captain America in the ice.
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Headquarters: Fury served at the S.H.I.E.L.D. Headquarters as his main base of operations when he was in the state of New York.
*Triskelion: Fury visited the Triskelion as the primary headquarters for S.H.I.E.L.D., as it has secrets kept in the agency that he had led, such as Project Insight. During the Hydra Uprising, Fury escaped the Triskelion as was destroyed by a Helicarrier.
*Guest House: Before the Guest House facility remained officially unaffiliated with S.H.I.E.L.D., Fury commissioned Project T.A.H.I.T.I., with Phil Coulson as the project's overseer, in order to develop a way to save a mortally wounded Avenger.
 
*Providence: Fury used the Providence as one of his secret bases, used as a top secret underground S.H.I.E.L.D. facility.
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Dam Facility: Being held inside the S.H.I.E.L.D. Dam Facility, Fury recovered from his wounds after an attack. Once Maria Hill took Captain America, Black Widow, and Falcon to the facility, Fury had a talk with them about salvaging what was left of S.H.I.E.L.D. after stopping Project Insight.
*Hideout: Fury gave Talos access to his hideout in Venice so that he, Quentin Beck and Spider-Man could stop the Elementals.
 
*S.A.B.E.R. Space Station: Fury boarded this station while operating in space.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Grandfather
*Jack Fury - Father
*Katherine Fury - Mother
*Varra/Priscilla Davis - Wife

### Allies

*Mr. Snoofers † - Pet
*Suzie - Childhood Friend
*United States Army
*CIA
*S.H.I.E.L.D. (First Incarnation) - Former Subordinates
**R. Keller - Former Superior
**Whitcher - Former Colleague
**Felix Blake
**Victoria Hand †
**Eric Koenig †
**Isabelle Hartley †
**J. Streiten
**Goodman
**Hank Thompson
**Tim Maguire †
**Case
**Lillian
**Susanna
**Garrett
**Hendricks
**Tyler
**Galaga Guy
**Agent
**Escort 6-0
*Los Angeles Police Department
*Goose - Pet
*Maria Rambeau †
*Norex †
*G'iah - Temporary Enemy and Impersonator
*World Security Council
**Hawley
**Rockwell †
**Yen †
**Singh †
*Laura Barton - Former Subordinate
*Cooper Barton
*Lila Barton
*NASA
*Erik Selvig
*Avengers
**Steve Rogers/Captain America - Friend and Former Subordinate
**Tony Stark/Iron Man † - Friend and Former Consultant
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel - Friend
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye - Former Subordinate, Temporary Enemy and Friend
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow † - Former Subordinate and Friend
**Bruce Banner/Hulk - Friend and Resurrector
**Thor
**James Rhodes/War Machine
**Sam Wilson/Falcon
**Pietro Maximoff/Quicksilver †
**Wanda Maximoff †
**Vision †
**Peter Parker/Spider-Man
*Sharon Carter - Former Subordinate
*Georges Batroc † - Former Employee
*S.H.I.E.L.D. (Second Incarnation) 
**Phil Coulson † - Recruit, Trainee, Friend and Successor
**Melinda May - Former Subordinate
**Leo Fitz - Former Subordinate
**Jemma Simmons - Former Subordinate
**Skye - Former Subordinate
**Antoine Triplett † - Former Subordinate
**Robert Gonzales † - Former Subordinate
**Bobbi Morse - Former Subordinate
**Alphonso Mackenzie - Former Subordinate
**Billy Koenig - Former Subordinate
**Anne Weaver - Former Subordinate
**Tomás Calderon - Former Subordinate
**Oliver † - Former Subordinate
**Mike Peterson/Deathlok - Temporary Enemy (under Hydra coercion) 
*Helen Cho
*Nick Fury's Crew - Former Subordinates
**Maria Hill † - Trainee and Close Friend
**Talos † - Former Enemy, Best Friend and Impersonator
**Soren †
**Cameron Klein
**Dimitri Smerdyakov
**Seamstress
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier - Former Attempted Killer (while under Hydra control) 
*Thaddeus Ross - Former Enemy
*Happy Hogan
*James Ritson
*S.A.B.E.R.
**Monica Rambeau
**FBI Skrull Agent
**Dag
**Talia
*MI6
**Sonya Falsworth - Friend
*Elizabeth Hill
*British Army
**Special Air Service
*Rick Mason
*J. Koskinen
*Muneeba Khan
*Yusuf Khan
*Aamir Khan
*Kamala Khan/Ms. Marvel
 

### Enemies

*Phil Coulson Skrull † - Victim
*Skrull Spy
*Ficke
*Kree Empire
**Dar-Benn †
**Starforce
***Yon-Rogg
***Minn-Erva † - Attempted Killer
***Korath †
***Att-Lass
***Bron-Char
**Accusers
***Ronan the Accuser †
*Red Room
**Dreykov †
*Ten Rings
*Ivan Vanko/Whiplash †
*Justin Hammer
*Loki † - Former Prisoner
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
*Hydra
**Alexander Pierce † - Former Friend, Former Superior and Victim
**Arnim Zola †
**Jasper Sitwell † - Former Subordinate
**Gideon Malick †
**Centipede Project
***John Garrett † - Former Subordinate and Trainee
***Grant Ward † - Former Subordinate
***Centipede Soldiers
**Kara Palamas/Agent 33 † - Former Subordinate
**Brock Rumlow †
**Jack Rollins
**Russo † - Former Subordinate
**Bobbitt † - Former Subordinate
**Wonsik † - Former Subordinate
*Ultron †
**Ultron Sentries
*Thanos † - Killer
*Skrull Resistance
**Gravik † - Impersonator
**Pagon †
**Raava † - Victim
**Vasily Poprishchin Skrull † - Victim
**Bob Fairbanks Skrull †
*United States Secret Service - Situational Enemies
**Cannon
**Johns
*Zachary Fairbanks - Hostage
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for Nick Fury
|-
|
 (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
** 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** 
* (mentioned) 
** (indirectly mentioned) 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** 
** 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; flashbacks) 
** 
** 
* (mentioned) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
** 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (hologram) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (indirectly mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (voice) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (costume) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* (voice) 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* 
** (concurrent events) 
** 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** 
* (mentioned) 
** (indirectly mentioned) 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** 
** 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; flashbacks) 
** 
** 
* (mentioned) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
** 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (hologram) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (indirectly mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (voice) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (costume) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (voice) 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*Although most of the characters in the Marvel Cinematic Universe are based on their mainstream counterparts, this version of Nick Fury is modeled after his Ultimate version who is himself modeled after Samuel L. Jackson. The mainstream version is an Italian American veteran of World War II who would later be replaced by his illegitimate son, a character virtually identical to the Ultimate version, following the success of the movies.
**Coincidentally, the Ultimate version said that if he could choose any actor to portray him on film, he would choose Samuel L. Jackson.
**However, the MCU version shares several traits with his mainstream counterpart, such as being a colonel of the United States Army instead of a general, or retaining his blinded eye instead of having actually lost his left eye.
*In Captain America: The Winter Soldier, the epitaph on Nick Fury's grave says: "THE PATH OF THE RIGHTEOUS MAN... Ezekiel 25:17". That is a reference to Samuel L. Jackson's other role as Jules Winnfield from the movie . Nick Fury's Grave 
**"The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who, in the name of charity and goodwill, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know I am the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon thee."
*Fury cannot eat toast if it is diagonally cut. 
*Fury has the same birthday as Steve Rogers.
*Fury speaks the final line of dialogue in both the first and last films of the Infinity Saga.
*The VFX artists of Secret Invasion used the Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki for the content seen in Fury's file which was featured in the episode Promises. The file included the aliases of "100% Red-Blooded Earth Man" from Captain Marvel, "One-Eyed Man" from Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. episode The Things We Bury, "Son of a Bitch" from Avengers: Age of Ultron, and "The Most Dangerous Man" from Spider-Man: Far From Home. It also used part of the affiliation section in the infobox and the relationships section of Nick Fury's article.

## Behind the Scenes

*Samuel L. Jackson was uncredited for his appearances in Iron Man, Thor, and Avengers: Infinity War.
*The story Fury told about his grandfather in Captain America: The Winter Soldier is actually a true story about Samuel L. Jackson's grandfather. Marvel: 15 Things You Didn't Know About Nick Fury 
*Nick Fury in the Marvel Cinematic Universe is the second live-action incarnation of the character, following an incarnation portrayed by David Hasselhoff.
* was in talks with Marvel for the role of Nick Fury but dropped out upon reading ' in which the character disembowels a Russian soldier and strangles him with his entrails.
*During early development of Spider-Man: Homecoming, Nick Fury was going to mentor Peter Parker instead of Tony Stark. Nick Fury Was Meant To Be Peter’s Mentor in Spider-Man: Homecoming 
*In the Latin American dubbing of Deadpool & Wolverine Deadpool refers to the Wolverine Variant Patch as Fury.
*Ousaun Elam, Kiante Elam, Henry Kingi, Curtis J. Stuart and Venice Smith were stunt doubles for Samuel L. Jackson in the role of Nick Fury.
*Brother Eden Douglas and Qualen Bradley were stand-ins for Samuel L. Jackson in the role of Nick Fury.
*Toney Chapman Steele was a body double for Samuel L. Jackson in the role of Nick Fury.

## References

 
 
 }}

 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 
de:Nick Fury
es:Nicholas Fury
fr:Nick Fury
pt-br:Nick Fury
ru:Ник Фьюри
uk:Нік Ф’юрі
Category:Characters
Category:Iron Man (film) Characters
Category:Iron Man 2 Characters
Category:Thor (film) Characters
Category:Captain America: The First Avenger Characters
Category:The Avengers Characters
Category:Captain America: The Winter Soldier Characters
Category:Avengers: Age of Ultron Characters
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Characters
Category:Captain Marvel (film) Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Spider-Man: Far From Home Characters
Category:The Marvels Characters
Category:Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Characters
Category:Secret Invasion (TV series) Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Males
Category:Black Hair
Category:Bald Hair
Category:Brown Eyes
Category:United States Army Officers
Category:CIA Agents
Category:S.H.I.E.L.D. Agents
Category:S.H.I.E.L.D. Leaders
Category:Nick Fury's Crew Leaders
Category:S.A.B.E.R. Agents
Category:Level 10
Category:High Body Count
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Resurrected Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Thanos
Category:Citogenic Articles