|alias = 
|derivatives = Pete 
|nicknames = Legendary Outlaw Star-Prince 
|organizational = Space-Lord 
|media = Star-Boy 
|undercover = }}
|species = Human-Celestial Hybrid
|citizenship = 
|gender = Male
|DOB = Late 1980 James Gunn on Twitter - May 14, 2017 
|DOD = May 2018 (resurrected in October 2023) 
|snapped = Yes 
|affiliation = St. Charles Elementary (formerly) (formerly) * (formerly) (formerly) 
|movie = Guardians of the Galaxy Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 Avengers: Infinity War Avengers: Endgame Thor: Love and Thunder Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3
|tv series = }}
|tv movie = The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special
|docuseries = Legends *The Ravagers *Peter Quill
|comic = Guardians of the Galaxy Prequel Infinite Comic Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 Prelude Avengers: Infinity War Prelude (flashbacks) Avengers: Endgame Prelude
|book = Guardians of the Galaxy Read-Along Storybook and CD Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2: Meet the Team! Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2: Rocket's Rules Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2: The Return of Rocket and Groot Avengers: Infinity War: The Heroes' Journey Avengers: Endgame: The Pirate Angel, The Talking Tree, and Captain Rabbit
|actor = Chris Pratt Wyatt Oleff (young) Luke Klein (young) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Peter Jason Quill is a human-Celestial hybrid who was abducted from Earth in 1988 by the Yondu Ravager Clan and raised as one of their members by Yondu, eventually building a reputation as the notorious intergalactic outlaw Star-Lord. In 2014, he decided to leave the Ravagers and operate individually, unintentionally becoming a key player in the quest for the Orb containing the Power Stone after stealing it from Morag. Following his arrest, he forged an uneasy alliance with fellow inmates Gamora, Drax the Destroyer, Rocket, and Groot, who together formed the Guardians of the Galaxy. They first rallied as a team by stopping Ronan the Accuser from destroying Xandar.

A few months later, Ayesha and the Sovereign hired the Guardians to defend Anulax Batteries from an Abilisk. However, after Rocket stole some of the batteries, Ayesha sent the Sovereign fleet after them. The Guardians were saved when the fleet was destroyed by Ego, Quill's biological father, whom Quill had never met. Quill then spent a few days bonding with his father. However, when Ego revealed that he was responsible for the death of Quill's mother, Quill allied with his fellow Guardians to prevent Ego's quest to being one with the universe. After killing Ego and witnessing Yondu's sacrifice, Quill continued to lead the Guardians of the Galaxy and eventually started a relationship with Gamora.

In 2018, the Guardians encountered Thor and began racing against Thanos to procure the Infinity Stones. Splitting up into two groups, Quill led Gamora, Drax and Mantis to Knowhere to recover the Reality Stone from the Collector, only to lose both it and Gamora to Thanos. Quill, Drax and Mantis later traveled to Titan to confront Thanos in person. With help from Iron Man, Doctor Strange, and Spider-Man, the Guardians fought Thanos, during which Quill was devastated to learn that Thanos had killed Gamora. In his anger, Quill unintentionally gave Thanos an opening to strike back and Quill, alongside his allies, was ultimately defeated. Thanos eventually succeeded in his goal and wiped out half of all life in the universe; Quill and most of the Guardians of the Galaxy were among the victims.

Five years after his death, Quill was resurrected along with all the other lives claimed by the Snap. He then returned to Earth for the first time with the help of Strange, participating in the Battle of Earth, where he encountered a Gamora from an alternate timeline. Following the battle, Quill attended Stark's funeral with the Guardians before leaving Earth to return to space. The Guardians continued to operate alongside Thor, helping planets in need. However, in 2025, when news of Gorr the God Butcher reached them, the Guardians and Thor went their separate ways, setting out to aid those in need. Later that year, during the rebuilding of Knowhere, Quill was still saddened by Gamora's death, prompting the Guardians to throw him a Christmas party with a surprise appearance by his idol Kevin Bacon where Quill was told that Mantis was his half-sister.

In 2026, Knowhere was attacked by Adam Warlock, who was sent by Ayesha to retrieve Rocket on behalf of their creator, the High Evolutionary. While the Guardians managed to thwart Adam, Rocket was severely wounded, prompting the Guardians to seek out his place of origin to heal him. During the adventure, Quill reunited with the alternate Gamora, who had joined the Ravagers and did not wish to be in a relationship with him. With Gamora in tow, the Guardians visited Counter-Earth, a planet designed to resemble Earth. Upon saving Rocket and defeating High Evolutionary, Quill made peace with the loss of Gamora and decided to seek out his family. Quill informed the Guardians that he would be leaving the team to move back to Earth, appointing Rocket as the Guardians' new leader. Returning to Missouri, Quill reunited with his grandfather Jason Quill.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### Fatherless Childhood

 
Peter Jason Quill was born in 1980 to Meredith Quill and Ego, making him a hybrid of human and Celestial. His conception was all part of a plot set up by his father to produce a second Celestial, whose power he could use to complete the Expansion, which involved assimilating millions of worlds into Ego's very being. Peter was only one in thousands of different children that Ego conceived over the course of millions of years, though all who came before him were killed and thrown aside, failing to meet Ego's expectations.
 ]]
Quill never knew his father, as Ego left Earth shortly after his son was conceived. Quill grew up in St. Charles, Missouri under the care of his mother and grandfather, Jason Quill, and attended St. Charles Elementary. Throughout his childhood, Quill became something of a wild child, getting into numerous fights. One of his report cards indicated poor academic performance, citing that he was disruptive, constantly inappropriate, talked too much and didn't apply himself in class. 
 
Growing up, Peter was very close with his mother, who brought together some of her favorite songs from her childhood into a mixtape she titled "Awesome Mix Vol. 1." When other children asked where his father was, Quill told them that his dad was David Hasselhoff and was busy with his career. 

### Leaving Earth
 

#### Losing his Mother

 ]]
 
In 1988, when he was eight years old, Peter's mother became afflicted with terminal brain cancer that, unbeknownst to Peter, was caused by Ego, who feared that his son's growing attachment to Meredith would turn him away from his Expansion plan. His mother's illness worsened over time, and shortly before she died, she gave Peter a present and a note attached to it. In her final moments, she begged Peter to hold her hand, but he could not bear to look at her. She died seconds later, leaving Peter distraught and screaming for her as he was pulled from the room by his grandfather, Jason Quill.
 's ship]]
Directly after her death, Quill ran out of the hospital crying, and was suddenly abducted from Earth by the Ravagers. Their mission was to take him to his father in deep space but their leader, Yondu Udonta, knew very well of Ego's nature and plans. Udonta instead decided that they would keep Quill as their own and chose never to tell him about his father. Quill then received a translator implant to help him communicate with the extraterrestrial species that did not know English. 

#### Raised by Ravagers

 
The Ravagers taught Quill how to be the perfect thief. Quill later recalled how, growing up in a Ravager clan, Yondu Udonta had often assaulted him in order to teach him how to fight and kept him in terror by threatening to eat him. He also told Quill that they kept him because he was a skinny kid who could squeeze into places that adults couldn't therefore making it easier for thieving. Quill was later told that the threat of being eaten was actually a joke, but as a child he believed it to be serious. 
 
As Christmas came, Quill told Kraglin Obfonteri about the holiday, and the two decided to make a Christmas tree and get gifts for all the Ravagers. Udonta discovered them and demanded to know what they were doing, so Quill explained what was happening. Udonta insisted that gift-giving seemed like sentiment, getting angry at the two for expressing it and destroying the tree. He demanded that they clean up the mess, threatening to make them clean the latrines and storming off. However, when Quill returned to his room, he saw a gift which Udonta had given him. He opened the gift and found a pair of Quad Blasters inside. Quill joined Udonta in flying the ship. 
 ]]
When he was ten-years-old, Udonta gave him an M-Ship that Quill named the Milano, after his childhood crush . As an adult, Quill started going by the name Star-Lord, which was a nickname given to him by his mother. During his time as a Ravager, he also acquired the Jet Boot Attachments, which were cheap to obtain. James Gunn on Twitter - James Gunn on Twitter - May 7, 2023 Quill's extensive Nova Corps criminal record included one count of fraud, two counts of public intoxication, one count of assault and one count of illegal manipulation of a Gramosian Duchess. Rhomann Dey picked him up for petty theft on one of Quill's capers, though the charge was not put on his record. During his adulthood, he was also known for engaging in sexual encounters with different women of differing species. 

### Quest for the Orb

#### Discovering The Orb

 to find the Orb]]
 
Living in space for twenty-six years, Quill built up a reputation as the self-proclaimed legendary outlaw "Star-Lord" and continued to work for Yondu Udonta. By the middle of 2014, Quill had become disloyal to the Ravagers, eventually planning to leave. When Udonta was given a job by the Broker to steal a mysterious item called the Orb from Morag, Quill decided to steal the Orb for himself and flew to the planet.
 ]]
Quill flew his ship to Morag where he used his Holo-Map Projector to locate an ancient temple where he believed the Orb was being held. As Star-Lord made his way through all of the various traps and dangers waiting for him in a temple, including little Orloni which had attempted to attack him, he kept himself entertained as he went through the temple by playing his own Walkman and danced to the music. He managed to locate the Orb inside the Temple Vault, but found it unprotected and so proceeded to use one of his Gravity Mines to pull it out of its shielded display and steal it, finding the job much easier than he had expected.
 ]]
However, just as he prepared to get away with his prize, Star-Lord was surrounded by Korath and his team of Sakaarans who demanded that he drop the Orb. When Star-Lord tried to claim that he was just a junker, Korath noted that he was clearly a member of the Ravagers. Not believing his stories, Korath then ordered his men to take Star-Lord back to Ronan the Accuser for questioning as Star-Lord's name clearly did not impress Korath at all.
 ]]
Quill was able to distract Korath and killed his Sakaaran soldiers by using his Plasma Sphere before he then shot Korath with his Quad Blasters. Believing he was now safe, Star-Lord picked the Orb up and made his escape while being chased down by Korath. Star-Lord used his jet boots to pick up speed as he made it to the Milano and used the Gravity Mine again to stop the other soldiers from shooting at him, all while Korath furiously ran closely behind him.
 soldiers]]
Having taken off his helmet, Star-Lord started up his ship and flew away from Morag while Korath still shot at him from a large cannon, forcing Star-Lord to use his flying skills to dodge the blasts. Once he had gotten away from the Kree soldier, Star-Lord confidently began cheering until he accidentally flew into a blast of steam which almost caused him to crash-land until he was just able to regain control of his ship and then continued to make his hasty escape.
 's appearance]]
While he was flying away from Morag and catching his breath from the ordeal, Star-Lord was then startled when he discovered that his date Bereet was still inside the ship. Quill had forgotten that she was there when he went on his heist, something which he quickly informed her of while he left Morag in order to take the Orb away and sell it for a huge profit.
 ]]
While traveling through space and listening to reports on the Kree-Nova War, Bereet then inadvertently answered a call from Yondu Udonta, who informed Quill that he and his Ravagers had arrived on Morag to find that the Orb was already taken. Much to Udonta's rage, Quill refused to tell him where he was and what his plans were, as Udonta then threatened him and confronted him about breaking the Ravager code before Quill hung up. 

#### Bounty Hunters Attack

 to Broker]]
 
Star-Lord went to Xandar in order to sell the Orb, saying goodbye to Bereet before he left. He brought it to the Broker who had made the deal with Yondu Udonta in hopes of selling it to another buyer. The merchant refused to take the Orb after Quill told him that Korath had been working for Ronan the Accuser, who desired to destroy Xandar.
 ]]
As he was being pushed outside of Broker's Shop, Quill protested Broker's actions before he encountered Gamora, who was standing outside the shop watching the commotion. Changing his tone, Quill claimed that the Broker had quit on a deal and did not have any integrity, like he did. Quill then attempted to flirt with Gamora, introducing himself as Star-Lord while Gamora seemed less than impressed by him, despite calling him a man of honor which Quill agreed with.
 for the Orb]]
While Quill continued to try and flirt with Gamora, he was suddenly attacked and kicked in the chest as she took the Orb from his hand and attempted to get away. Quill quickly used Energy Bolas to trip over Gamora before chasing after her and trying to wrestle the Orb away from her hands. However, Quill quickly found himself being overpowered by the assassin, who drew Godslayer and prepared to kill him while Quill was pinned down and defenseless.
 ]]
Moments before Gamora could execute Star-Lord, however, he was inadvertently saved when she was also attacked by the outlaw duo of Rocket and Groot, who both desired the bounty that had been placed on Quill's head by the Ravagers. Quill was stunned to see a walking tree and a talking raccoon as they were well-known species from Earth. While Gamora attempted to fight off the two bounty hunters so she could regain the Orb, Star-Lord attempted to escape, only to have Gamora throw a knife at his hand and cause him to drop the Orb once again. The pair then wrestled for the Orb with Star-Lord losing the fight again and was pinned to the ground and called a fool by Gamora.
 ]]
Refusing to be defeated, however, Star-Lord distracted Gamora by teaser her while he placed one of his Jet Boot Attachments and then activated it, causing Gamora to be sent flying backwards. While Quill celebrated, he was then captured by Groot, only for Gamora to free him by cutting off Groot's arms. Once the bag was opened, Star-Lord used the chance to shoot Gamora with his Quad Blasters and then attempted to escape on foot with the Orb still in his hand.
 ]]
However, before he could get away from his attackers, Star-Lord was shot by Rocket's Laser Cannon, causing him to fall to the floor in agony while Rocket laughed at him. After a lengthy chase, all four were eventually apprehended by the Nova Corps, Quill was arrested by Rhomann Dey, who he had previously been arrested by. Picking him up, Dey teased Quill by mistaking his name as "Star-Prince," much to his annoyance as he was taken away. 

#### Held in the Kyln

 ]]
 
Once they all arrived in their holding cells, Star-Lord and the others were forced into a line up by the Nova Corps where all of their own criminal histories were presented for Garthan Saal by Rhomann Dey. Frustrated by this experience, Star-Lord amused himself by giving the middle finger to those looking at him before claiming that it was an accident.
 for his sentence]]
The group was sent to the Kyln by Saal to begin their sentence, where they all arrived together and continued their disagreements. Quill compared Rocket to a normal raccoon that he remembered from Earth, but then began questioning what Gamora had planned for the Orb. She eventually revealed to them that she was planning on betraying Ronan the Accuser and selling the Orb to a third party who she refused to name. Also, Quill wondered why Groot could only say three words repeatedly.
 back]]
Quill then spotted one of the mean guards using his own Walkman. He quickly stepped through the doorway into the guard's quarters in order to ensure the Walkman was not lost forever. While the others watched, Quill confronted the guard and demanded that he put the Walkman into storage, noting that the song was Blue Swede as the guard refused and instead used a taser rod to then electrocute Quill, knocking him to the floor and easily subduing him.
 ]]
Quill and all the others were then processed by the Nova Corps as he was stripped down and washed, humiliating him. When Quill then attempted to confront the guards over his treatment, he soon found himself being threatened by armed Hoverbots which kept him in his place. While being given his prison uniform, Quill was briefly put into the same cell as Rocket Raccoon where he noticed the cybernetic enhancements attached to Rocket's back, although Quill did not comment on them and instead sat in complete silence.
 
Once Quill and the other members of the group had been processed and stepped into the prison, Gamora was threatened due to her own connection with Ronan and Thanos. Quill himself then almost found himself a target in the prison when a monstrous inmate attempted to start a fight. However, Quill was saved by both Rocket and Groot who defeated the Inmate in a humiliating fashion and declared that Quill was their booty and no-one else was to go near them. Quill did not argue and proudly stated that he was truly with them. 

#### Saving Gamora

 ]]
 
Quill went to sleep in the group quarters while Gamora got her own personal cell where the prisoners continued to threaten her. During his night in the Kyln, Quill found himself in a tightly kept room where he had to rest of the backs of the other prisoners. However, while he could not sleep, Quill overheard Gamora being abducted by one of the guards as well as some of the other prisoners.
 being ambushed]]
Not willing to let her die, Quill followed the activity along with Rocket where he found Moloka Dar attempting to slice Gamora's throat before Drax the Destroyer appeared from the shadows and furiously demanded that he be the one to execute Gamora in order to avenge his late wife and daughter. Quill watched as Dar handed Drax his knife, while Gamora tried to get free and claimed to be no family to Thanos and was the only one able to stop him.
 from Drax the Destroyer]]
As Drax furiously pinned Gamora to the wall and tried to kill her, Quill jumped forward and attempted to distract and keep Drax from killing her. When Drax noted Gamora had tried to kill him, Quill noted all the women, including A'askavariian who had tried to kill him in the past. Quill then tried to convince Drax that, since she had now betrayed Ronan the Accuser, he would likely come for her allowing Drax to finally exact his revenge, which he soon accepted.
 discuss selling the Orb]]
Quill assured Gamora that he didn't care about her well-being, but knew that she would be able to show him where to sell the Orb. Gamora agreed that if they could escape the prison and retrieve the orb for her third party, she would split all the profit between them all and Groot, who Rocket berated for sleeping through everything. Quill promised that Rocket would be able to help them escape, although Rocket noted he still wanted Yondu Udonta's bounty. 

#### Prison Break

 's plan]]
 
The next day, Rocket devised a plan to break them all out of the Kyln; as a team, they would collect a series of items from across the prison which would allow Rocket to hack into the security tower. Quill expressed his fear that the plan would be impossible to pull off, but Rocket insisted that they try. The plan went awry when Groot completed the last step first, setting off the alarms.
 
As the Nova Corps began charging into the room to stop Groot and while Gamora went to collect the Angry Guard's own cybernetic arm implant, Quill ran off to steal the One Legged Prisoner's false leg, offering the prisoner 30,000 units in exchange. Although the Prisoner was highly confused by the offer, he soon accepted and Quill got the leg as Rocket had requested. As he charged back outside, avoiding the gunfire, Quill was almost recaptured by one of the guards but was able to use the false leg to quickly defend himself.
 
Having taken the subdued guard's gun for himself, Quill made his way towards the security tower, shooting at the hoverbots that tried to stop him. While Quill attempted to continue the mission, Groot and Rocket continued to be fired on by the other hoverbots in order to regain the Quarnyx Battery Groot had stolen, causing chaos for all the other prisoners. Rocket continued his part of the plan until he was finally ready for all of the others to regroup with him.
 ]]
Quill began climbing up Groot's leg in order to get into the security tower, but was soon himself defenseless and with a drone aiming it's guns directly at him. However, before Quill could be killed, he was assisted by Drax the Destroyer, who joined them in order to find and kill Ronan the Accuser. Drax celebrated ripping the drone apart with his bare hands while referring to Quill as one who had previously laid with an A'askavariian, much to Quill's embarrassment.
 
Once they got into the Watchtower and locked the door behind them, Gamora confronted Star-Lord about why Drax had been allowed to join them. Rocket then revealed that stealing the leg was simply a joke, which greatly annoyed Quill due to the money he had spent to get it. They soon found the Head Riot Guard had gathered his team as they attempt to shoot the Watchtower while Rocket worked. Quill began to worry Rocket did not have a plan until he managed to turn on the anti-gravity and flew the watchtower to safety.
 
Now safely out of the way of the Nova Corps, Quill and the others prepared to escape into deep space on board the Milano. As they all began collecting their belongings, Quill noticed that the Mean Guard had stolen his Walkman for himself. Determined not to lose his most prized possession due to its connection to his mother, Quill gave Gamora his own bag, claiming it contained the Orb and went to find the guard, telling the others to wait for him to get back.
 ]]
In reality, however, Quill had kept the Orb with him to ensure that the others did not leave without him as he knew they would not leave the chance to sell it to their buyer and make a large profile, so Quill changed into his own clothes and went on his mission to reclaim his Walkman. Star-Lord fought through all the guards using his Quad Blasters, easily subduing them before they had a chance to fight back. When one of the guards he had knocked down complained about seriously damaging his neck, Star-Lord continued walking past him and shot him once again with a blast of electricity, knocking him out while Star-Lord continued searching for his Walkman.
 
Having taken out most of the other Nova Corps guards, Star-Lord eventually found the guard who was listening to " " on his Walkman. With the guard distracted by the music, Star-Lord sneaked up on him before knocking him out with a blow from the Orb. Star-Lord then focused his efforts on regrouping with the others who were being forced to wait for him to finally return to the ship with the Orb.
 ]]
Using his own Helmet to survive in deep space, Star-Lord then flew outside the prison to the ship, where Drax the Destroyer was amazed by his brave efforts. Once Star-Lord was back on board, he handed Gamora the Orb while Drax complimented him on all his incredible bravery and questioned what he had left them to collect, noting he would be a key ally in the battle against Ronan the Accuser. However, when Quill then revealed what it was he had gone back for, Drax then called him an imbecile for risking his life for such an item. 

#### Keeping the Peace

 ]]
 
On the Milano, Quill found Rocket pulling apart bits of his ship to build weapons, including the Hadron Enforcer. Quill was furious and told him to stop, noting that he did not want any bombs or moon-destroying weapons on his ship. When Rocket suggested putting the bomb in a box, he tried to use the box of Meredith Quill's present to Peter, to which he insisted Rocket did not touch it.
 discussing about the Orb]]
Quill then asked Gamora to give him her buyer's coordinates which she refused to do, leading to a conversation about who trusted the other more. They began discussing what the Orb really was, with Drax the Destroyer excitingly asking if it was a weapon that they could use to kill Ronan the Accuser, leading to an argument between him and Gamora which Quill was forced to break up as he insisted that nobody kill anyone on board his ship. Upon commenting on the large sum that was going to be paid to the group, Drax claimed to have no interest in money which Quill joked meant more money for the rest of them, including Groot who was listening on.
 
Quill then stated that the dysfunctional group was going to have to start trusting each other if they were actually going to start working together as a new team, but Gamora showed little interest in having anything to do with any of them after they had all sold the Orb. As Gamora walked away from the group, she noted that Quill's ship was filthy, to which he claimed that under a blacklight it would look like a painting, much to the disgust of Rocket. 

#### Trouble On Knowhere

 ]]
 
While practicing with his Quad Blasters, Quill was informed that they were now arriving on Knowhere, a remote criminal outpost in space built in the giant severed-head of a Celestial. As they explored Knowhere, Quill told the group about his time of the Earth, describing it as a planet of outlaws which Drax the Destroyer expressed interest in visiting.
 discuss the deal]]
The group decided to relax while waiting to meet Gamora's contact, The Collector. Once he had filled the Milano up with fuel, Quill joined Gamora outside and they spent time together where they discussed her relationship with her adoptive father, Thanos. Gamora told Quill how Thanos had murdered her entire family in front of her before he took her into his custody and turning her into a weapon, explaining that when he agreed to destroy Xandar for a new deal with Ronan the Accuser, that was the moment she chose to betray him.
 ]]
Gamora asked about Quill's Walkman and why he had gone back for it during the Escape from the Kyln, Quill explained that it had been a gift from his mother before her death. Telling her that he used the Walkman to listen to music and dance, he even allowed Gamora to listen to his music before trying to kiss her. However, Gamora drew her knife and held it directly to Quill's throat, refusing to kiss him and accusing him of trying to trick her, which he denied.
 and Drax]]
However, they were interrupted by the fight that had just broken out between Drax, Rocket and Groot. Quill and Gamora broke up the fight between the three. As Rocket still tried to fight, Quill reminded him to sell the Orb for billions of units first then he could leave them for good. Quill told Rocket, Drax, Gamora and Groot that their lack of trust for others has prevented them from ever making friends. However, Quill could not stop Drax from leaving, as he was furious that he still had not had a chance to kill Ronan. 

#### Meeting the Collector

 's museum]]
 
While the group let Drax the Destroyer walk away, they were then greeted by Carina, the assistant of the Collector, who finally invited them into the Collector's Museum which housed several species and items in cages, including Dark Elves and Howard the Duck. Quill took a step back and watched as the Collector then greeted Gamora and questioned if he could buy Groot from them, as he wished to have his corpse in his own collection someday. Quill then presented the Orb to the Collector, briefly dropping it onto the floor.
 ]]
As the Collector began to open the Orb, he explained that it was, in fact, one of the Infinity Stones, an item of immeasurable power that was capable of destroying entire planets and kills all but the most powerful beings who wield it. The Collector then showed the group footage of one of the Celestials using the Orb's power to destroy a planet, as Quill claimed it was scary enough to make him pee while the Collector marveled at the Power Stone in the Orb.
 avoid the Orb's explosion]]
With his demonstration now over, Rocket insisted that the Collector now pay them for their trouble. Before the Collector could pay them all, however, his tormented assistant who wanted to use the power to be free grabbed the stone, triggering an explosion that engulfed his collection while ripping the screaming Carina apart from the inside. The team barely managed to survive the explosion as Groot pulled Rocket outside while Quill and Gamora hid behind a desk and barely dodged the flames. 

#### Skirmish on Knowhere

 ]]
 
As they left the Collector's Museum with the Power Stone now back encased within the Orb, Quill found that Rocket was utterly horrified by seeing that they still had the Orb after witnessing its true power, claiming that they should just give it back to Ronan the Accuser and escape. Quill suggested they give it to Yondu Udonta in exchange for money.
 ]]
Before they could continue arguing, Ronan and Nebula arrived with their entire army of Sakaarans behind them. Having learned that Drax the Destroyer had called his enemy for a chance to kill him to avenge his murdered family, Quill looked on in horror before realizing that Udonta and his own team of Ravagers had also arrived to find and capture him. With limited options, Gamora attempted to flee with Orb only to be pursued by Nebula while Quill followed behind.
 ]]
Taking command of Mining Pods alongside Rocket, he and Quill assisted Gamora in fighting off the Sakaaran's Necrocraft which were attempting to shoot her out of the sky in order to reclaim the Orb. During their arial battle, Star-Lord and Rocket managed to destroy many of the Sakaaran ships as Quill recommended to Rocket that they begin using the Mining Pods as battering rams causing Ronan's battleships to crash land on Knowhere and then explode.
 's guns]]
While Drax fought against Ronan on the ground, Star-Lord attempted to gain the advantage in the fight by using his Mining Pod's claws to rip open one of the Necrocraft and pull out the Sakaaran driving it. Star-Lord then proceeded to use the Necrocraft's weapons to shoot the other ships out of the sky, trying to allow Gamora to get away with the Orb. However, despite Star-Lord's best efforts, Gamora had eventually found herself cornered by all of Nebula's ships.
 freezing to death]]
With no other choice, Gamora was forced to fly out into deep space where Nebula destroyed her Pod and retrieved the Orb, leaving her sister to die in space. Star-Lord and Rocket watched this from afar, as their Mining Pods did not have the power to get closer. Rocket recommended they turn back before they got trapped, but Star-Lord refused to allow Gamora to die. Calling Yondu Udonta and telling him his location, Star-Lord made his decision to save Gamora.
 from freezing in space]]
Star-Lord proceeded to exit his pod and flew through deep space to reach Gamora, despite all of Rocket's protests that he would not be able to survive in the extreme conditions of deep space. Refusing to listen to Rocket, Star-Lord gave Gamora his mask to help her survive while his own body began to freeze from the extreme cold and lack of oxygen. Before Quill could suffocate and die in space, they were both then surrounded by the Eclector piloted by Udonta.
 
With moments to spare, Star-Lord and Gamora were rescued by the Ravagers and Udonta who then teleported them on board. Looking Gamora in the eye, Quill told her that he had not been able to bring himself to allow her to die, claiming that he was being very heroic in doing so. As Quill revealed that Ronan the Accuser had reclaimed the Orb during the battle, Kraglin Obfonteri and a team of Ravagers then held them at gunpoint and took them into their custody. 

#### Deal with Yondu

 ]]
 
While on Yondu Udonta's ship, Quill was beaten and mocked by his former boss, who was still furious that Quill had betrayed them and stolen the Orb from Morag to try and sell it himself. Quill argued with Udonta about how Udonta claimed Quill should be grateful that he wasn't eaten by the other Ravagers, which enraged Quill as he noted that Udonta had been threatening that ever since he had been taken from Earth by Udonta all those many years earlier.
 ]]
Udonta lost patience and aimed his Yaka Arrow at Quill's throat. Quill attempted to talk Udonta out of killing him by telling him that he now knew where the Orb was and claiming that they could work together to retrieve it. Knowing the Orb was with Ronan the Accuser, Udonta claimed that it was impossible to steal it from the Kree: however, Quill noted that with Gamora's help they possibly had a chance to exploit his weaknesses, at which point Udonta dropped the arrow.
 to stop attacking]]
While Quill, Udonta and the other Ravagers celebrated the new deal, suddenly, Rocket fired at the Eclector from the Milano. Quill and the others ran to investigate as they all saw that Rocket was explaining that Drax the Destroyer was aiming the Hadron Enforcer at the Eclector and threatened to blow it up with Quill and Gamora were not freed. Rocket gave a short countdown until Drax fired. However, luckily, Quill just managed to defuse the situation in time. 

### Uniting the Team

#### Deal with the Ravagers

 's actions]]
 
Back on the Milano, Quill berated Rocket, Groot and Drax the Destroyer about their foolish attempt to rescue them from Yondu Udonta, in which they would have destroyed the ship if Undonta hadn't handed them over. The group then began to discuss what their next move would be in order to get the Orb back.
 
Quill told the group that he has a plan, only to be further asked by Rocket, to which he further noted to have part of a plan. As the group continued discussing a plan, Rocket asked Quill about what percentage, in which he expressed twelve percent. Noticing Rocket's sarcastic laugh, Quill pointed that he didn't believe him, further bothering Rocket. As Groot praises Quill's plan to Rocket, Quill liked Groot's thinking before seeing him eat a leaf on his shoulder.
 
Eventually, Quill pitched his plan to attack the Dark Aster, kill Ronan the Accuser and take back the Orb, although Rocket argued that the plan seemed like a suicide mission. While Quill had to rest in disappointment on trying to save the galaxy, Gamora stood by him and vowed to fight with him as well as Drax to stand amongst the group and vowed to fight with them. As Groot decided to stand and fight with the team, Rocket then agreed to fight alongside them as they and were willing to put their lives on the line to stop Ronan.
 ]]
With the rest of the team on board, Quill listened to his Walkman, dressed up for the battle and equipped his Jet Boot Attachments. It soon didn't take long for the rest of the team to agree to help as well and they went back to the Ravagers' ship to discuss the details of the plan with Udonta and his men. Quill came out with a plan and recruited the Ravagers to help destroy a part of the Dark Aster and let him and Udonta's group to go inside the ship.
 ]]
Gamora then expanded on the plan that once they went inside the Dark Aster, she would close the dense doorway that would let them unite inside Ronan's room. Quill concluded the plan that he'd use the Hadron Enforcer to kill Ronan, letting the Ravagers to have capsules to collect the Power Stone. Rocket attempted to incorporate Vorker's cybernetic eye to be removed for the plan, but was quickly denied by Quill.
 ]]
As Quill was walking in the ship and ready to pilot the Milano, Undonta confronted him and told him that if he did not give him the stone at the end of the battle, he and the Ravagers would kill him as well as the other Guardians, much to Quill's uncomfortable stance on Undonta. Quill and the Guardians then parted their ways onto the positions of the plan but not long after he decided to call Rhomann Dey and told him of his plan, asking for the help of the Nova Corps. 

#### Battle of Xandar

 in battle]]
 
Once they arrived at Xandar, Star-Lord's team and the Ravagers put the plan into action and Quill warned Rhomann Dey so that he could tell the rest of the Nova Corps. Ronan the Accuser arrived on Xandar with the Dark Aster and thousands of Sakaaran soldiers.
 
Quill and the Ravagers engaged them in a massive aerial battle, as they were quickly attacked by swarms of Necrocraft sent by Ronan, who overwhelmed them, even managing to shoot Yondu Udonta's battleship out of the sky. While Kraglin Obfonteri and Rocket shot a hole in the side of the ship to allow Quill and Udonta to board. However, the Nova Corps, led by Garthan Saal under the orders of Irani Rael, arrived to helped in the battle, much to Quill's surprise for their acceptance.
 ]]
While Saal and Rocket kept Ronan's entire army at bay with the aid of the Ravagers, Quill was able to land the Milano inside the Dark Aster through a hole blasted in by Rocket. As they crash landed into the ship, Quill used the ship's guns to kill dozens of the Sakaarans inside, as Drax the Destroyer could not hold back his glee and cheered with delight to which Quill was told by Gamora that they're just like Kevin Bacon.
 generating spores of light]]
Once they landed and left the crashed ship, they discovered that the Dark Aster was too dark for them to see so Groot used his powers to create a strange light across the ship to show them the way. When Drax questioned how Groot could do it, Star-Lord noted the answer would likely be "I am Groot." As they made their way across the ship, they were suddenly stopped by Nebula who attempted to kill the team, but Drax shot her with his rocket launcher.
 soldiers]]
With the threat of Nebula seemingly dealt with the team, they split up, having Gamora going to unlock the security doors while Star-Lord, Drax and Groot made their way through the Sakaaran army towards Ronan's location. They were eventually confronted by a team led by Korath the Pursuer, who said his alias, much to Star-Lord's delight. While the team battled the small army of Sakaaran soldiers, Star-Lord used both of his Quad Blasters to kill them.
 on the Dark Aster]]
Star-Lord was then forced to battle Korath, who easily overpowered him despite his best efforts. Drax then came to Quill's aid and personally engaged in a fierce battle against Korath and managed to kill him by ripping out one of his cranial implants, electrocuting him to death. After Drax had killed Korath, Quill listened to him saying that he was making a metaphor of his murder, leading Quill to semi-agree with him. Just as Star-Lord considered correcting Drax on the meaning of a metaphor, they were attacked by another large team of Sakaarans sent by Ronan. Before they could engage in another battle against the soldier, Star-Lord and Drax then witnessed Groot massacre the entire team of Sakaarans.
 ]]
As they continued toward, they discovered that the door was still locked due to Gamora being busy battling against Nebula. Eventually, they made it to Ronan and Quill shot him with the Hadron Enforcer; however, Ronan was unaffected by the attack. For a moment, they were defenseless, Drax was held by the throat by Ronan, but before he could kill them, Rocket came crashing in with his own ship heavily damaging the Dark Aster, causing it to crash.
 from his ship]]
Once the team had recovered from the explosive crash, Quill pulled the injured Rocket out of the crashed ship and he joined the rest of the group, believing Ronan to be dead and their own lives to be lost when the ship crashed to the ground. As the team had huddled together, Groot had the idea to cover the group up, forming a branch over them and shielded them out of his body, seemingly at the cost of his life.
 's return]]
As Groot continued to make a dome around the team, Quill noticed the spores of light from the inside while Rocket had woken up from his crash. When the Dark Aster crash landed to the ground, Groot's body was destroyed and the rest of the team survived with only minor injuries. Listening to " " by the Five Stairsteps, Quill woke up from the ground and looked over the team to ensure they were all okay, only to witness Ronan, exiting the wreckage of his ship. 

#### Self-Sacrifice

 to a dance off]]
 
Ronan began to mock the injured team, calling them the Guardians of the Galaxy, which the group took a liking to. As he prepared to use the Infinity Stone to destroy Xandar, Quill, seeing no other option, distracted Ronan by dancing to " " by the Five Stairsteps and challenging Ronan to a dance-off.
 ]]
While Ronan stared at Quill with utter confusion. Quill tried to get Gamora to participate, to which she declined. Ronan then asked Quill what he is doing, to which he replied that he was creating a distraction. This allowed the time for Drax and Rocket to repair the Hadron Enforcer and use it to destroy the hammer. As the Infinity Stone hung in the air, Quill willingly sacrificed himself and grabbed the stone. Its power began to rip Quill's body apart, causing him unbearable pain. Gamora came to Quill's aid asking him to take her hand; hearing those words made Quill hallucinate an image of his dying mother asking him to take her hand.
 's energy]]
Having to snap out of the hallucination when he heard Gamora calling out to him again, Quill then took her hand, causing them to share the Power Stone's energy. With both of them taking the pain, Drax the Destroyer came to their aid and began to hang onto Quill's shoulder, taking the pain as well along with Rocket, who grabbed onto one of Drax's fingers, causing huge amounts of pain for him from the Stone.
 taking off on their ship]]
Between all of them, they successfully absorbed its power and were able to control it. Ronan stared in horror, demanding to know how it was possible that they could hope the Stone despite being mortal. Quill responded that they were the Guardians of the Galaxy. The four then directed the Power Stone's power to blast Ronan, obliterating him. With Ronan and his army now destroyed, Yondu Udonta demanded that Quill hand over the Orb despite Quill telling him that it was only safe with the Nova Corps.
 ]]
Once the Ravagers took the Orb, Quill tricked Yondu into taking a container supposedly containing the stone, but that actually contained a . As the Ravagers left Xandar, they remarked that it turned out well that they did not deliver Quill to his father as a child. On Xandar, Quill spoke to Gamora about how although they would now want him dead, the Ravagers were the only family he had ever known, Gamora told him that wasn't true anymore. Quill gave the real Orb to the Nova Corps. 

#### The Guardians of the Galaxy

 ]]
 
Quill's group, now known as the Guardians of the Galaxy, had their criminal records expunged by the Nova Corps, who informed Quill that he was only half-human, as his father being part of an ancient species that could wield an Infinity Stone. In addition, the Nova Corps rebuilt the Milano while also returning its scattered cargo and presented it to Quill, who accepted the gift with gratitude.
 ]]
Quill finally opened the last present he received from his mother; a second cassette tape filled with her favorite songs. Once Quill was finished with reading his mother's letter, he put the cassette tape on his player and began listening to it as he shed a tear for her memory. The Guardians left in the Milano, accompanied by a twig recovered from Groot, which was already regrowing. 

#### Battle on Sovereign

 ]]
 
Over the next two months, while traveling through space as mercenaries for hire, Rocket created Aero-Rigs, which served as jetpacks for the Guardians of the Galaxy. As a result, Quill stopped using his Jet Boot Attachments. The Guardians were hired by the High Priestess Ayesha, leader of the Sovereign race to defend some Anulax Batteries from an Abilisk. During the fight, Quill and the Guardians were badly beaten until Quill and Rocket forced the creature to look up, exposing a neck wound that Gamora widened to kill the creature.
 for his heritage]]
Afterwards, the Guardians were thanked by Ayesha, who handed over Nebula as part of trade due to having been arrested by the Sovereign. While flirting with Quill and discussing natural reproduction with him, Ayesha also made various disparaging comments about Quill's hybrid status that slightly upset him, as it caused him to wonder once again who his father was. 

#### Escape from the Sovereign Fleet

 ]]
 
Later, after apologizing to Gamora for supposedly flirting with Ayesha, Drax the Destroyer told him he had no chance with her since he was a dancer whilst Gamora was not.
 on Berhert]]
The Guardians of the Galaxy were then attacked by a Sovereign fleet and discovered that Rocket had stolen the Anulax Batteries from them. Star-Lord and Rocket tried to pilot the Milano to safety, but their arguments over who was the more capable pilot caused them to run into a Sovereign fleet trap. The ships were then suddenly destroyed by a mysterious figure in an oval-shaped vessel, but due to the damage caused to the Milano, they crashed on another planet. 

### Reunion with His Father

#### Meeting Ego

 ]]
 
As the Milano crash landed on Berhert, the Guardians of the Galaxy got out and immediately began arguing over who was responsible for the incident, with Star-Lord and Rocket both blaming each other for the crash. As they were still all arguing, the Guardians were almost immediately greeted by their saviors, who were revealed to be Ego and his servant, Mantis. When asked who exactly he was, Ego introduced himself as Quill's own long-lost father.
 discuss their histories]]
The group set up a campfire where Ego explained that he had been searching for Quill ever since Yondu Udonta and his Ravagers had failed to deliver him as he was paid to do so. When asked how he had found them, Ego claimed that even as far out as he resided, he had heard stories of Star-Lord and his great victory over Ronan the Accuser during the Battle of Xandar. Ego promised Quill he would take him to his home planet and explain to him his true heritage while also getting to be the father to Quill that he had always wanted to be. Though initially skeptical, Gamora persuaded Quill that he should go with Ego to see Ego's own planet and finally learn the truth.
 , and Drax head off with Ego]]
After the campfire from the previous night, Quill decided to take the risk and go along with Ego to see if he was telling the truth. On their way, Quill told Rocket to stay put, despite his remarks of his complete dismay of being reckless from crashing the ship. Drax the Destroyer and Gamora accompanied Quill, Ego and Mantis on board Ego's Ship whilst Rocket and Groot were told to remain on Berhert in order to repair the ship and guard Nebula to ensure that she did not attempt to escape. While onboard Ego's Ship, Quill watched as Mantis used her powers to help Ego sleep during the long journey.
 ]]
On the way, Mantis revealed her ability to feel the feelings of others and demonstrated by touching Quill and revealing his feelings for Gamora to everyone in the room. When Drax burst into hysterics at the announcement, Quill became defensive arguing that it was not that funny, though he was clearly embarrassed. 

#### Bonding with Ego

 's home planet]]
 
Arriving on Ego's planet, Ego revealed that he was a Celestial and explained his origins. He revealed that the planet was a part of him and his human form was an avatar body he walked in to explore the Galaxy and seek other lifeforms. Ego explained how he met Meredith Quill and fell in love with her whilst visiting Earth and hired Yondu Udonta to bring Quill to him.
 's true heritage]]
Quill asked Ego why he then chose to leave his mother behind, and Ego revealed that he had to return to his planet otherwise his avatar body would die after prolonged distance from his main source. Ego then helped Quill to access his abilities as a Celestial which allowed him to create objects, greatly exciting Quill, who then proceeded to play catch with his father using a ball he had created.
 dance on Ego's Planet]]
Quill later danced with Gamora trying to persuade her that she felt something for him too, something she denied. Gamora revealed her suspicions about the planet as Mantis seemed unusually fearful, but Quill argued that he had finally found his family and demanded to know why she couldn't be happy for him. Gamora mentioned that he had family on Earth but chose not to return there, and Quill explained that he had no desire to return to Earth since that is where his mother died. Gamora then stated that she thought he had found his family with the Guardians of the Galaxy before walking off due to Quill's arrogance. 

#### Ego's Treachery

 's advice]]
 
Ego came to comfort Quill afterwards and revealed that he was immortal due to his Celestial DNA and offered to bring him into what he had been working on. Excited, Quill accepted, which was overheard by Mantis. Ego explained what he had not told him earlier; that when he found the life he was disappointed by it which helped him find meaning then hypnotized Quill into helping him before continuing to tell his plans to him.
 from his hypnosis]]
Ego revealed that he planned on improving the universe by planting parts of himself on every planet he visited. His plan was to bring all the planets together to become a part of himself. He revealed that on every planet he went to he would impregnate women to sire an offspring needed for his Expansion, as he needed two Celestial beings to activate the seeds he had left on each planet. Ego also had Yondu Udonta deliver some of the children to him; however, they never inherited his genes until Quill.
 's light tentacle]]
As Quill listened in forced silence, Ego cried out that he was no longer alone, reminding Quill of his friends. The bond he has for his friends and his mother, along with Ego's revelation that he had caused the death of Meredith Quill, enabled Quill to break free of Ego's control. In anger, Quill attacked his father, only for Ego to incapacitate him and begin his Expansion by harnessing his son to achieve his plan. However, Quill escaped when Ego was crushed by a ship piloted by Rocket and Udonta as Mantis, Drax the Destroyer, Gamora and Nebula arrived to save Quill after learning of Ego's treachery from Mantis. 

#### Battle on Ego's Planet

 fly a Construction Drilling Vessel]]
 
Mantis explained that Ego's only weakness was his brain at the core of the planet, so Star-Lord and Yondu Udonta piloted the industrial craft underground, tunneling through the planet surface. They arrived to find Ego's brain sealed in a core that was connected to the rest of the planet and began cutting into it, knowing they only had a limited time before Ego found them.
 escape together]]
They were interrupted when the Sovereign fleet arrived, causing Drax the Destroyer, Mantis and Gamora to fall out of the craft. Mantis used her power to subdue Ego by putting him to sleep whilst Star-Lord, Rocket and Groot flew to the core to plant a bomb on Ego made from the Anulax Batteries stolen from the Sovereign and Nebula and Udonta piloted the ship. Star-Lord defended the core from the Sovereign while Rocket gave Groot the bomb, temporarily taking a break to ask if anyone had any tape to put over the death button.
 ]]
He then argued with Rocket after the answer being 'no' with Groot running off whilst still being unsure about how to operate the bomb. Quill continued to fight the Sovereign before being shot at and knocked back into the ship. When the ship exploded after Nebula hacked herself into the infrastructure, Quill floated down with Udonta, who used his Yaka Arrow, commenting that the Udonta looked like and assuring him that "he" was very cool.
 with Celestial powers]]
Mantis was then knocked out by a piece of shrapnel which awoke Ego, who began to fight the Guardians of the Galaxy. After subduing all of them, Ego resumed using his power to force Quill into reactivating the seedlings around the universe. However, from Udonta's encouragement and advice on how he uses his arrow, Quill recalled all the good times he shared with everyone he cares about, his mother, friends and Udonta. Those feelings of love and friendship were so strong it helped Quill unlock his own Celestial power to fight his father, creating a giant rock-like glove to punch him. Quill distracted his father enough to free his friends, Nebula and Udonta from his grasp and stop the seedlings. Quill also used his Celestial powers to construct a rocky giant avatar resembling to hit Ego with.
 's many attacks]]
Both eventually collapsed into exhaustion with Ego furiously trying to plead with Quill to help him after discovering the bomb on his brain. Ego told Quill that with Ego dead, Quill's powers would fade away and he would be rendered mortal. Quill stated that he accepted this fact, much to his father's horror. He held him down as the bomb exploded, destroying Ego's brain and grievously watched as his father's avatar passed away in his arms, while his Celestial powers seemingly faded away. 

#### Yondu Udonta's Sacrifice

 ]]
 
Without Ego's essence, the planet began to break down and collapse in on itself. A ship piloted by Kraglin Obfonteri rescued the other Guardians, leaving Quill stranded at the core. As Quill accepted his fate, content that he had managed to protect his friends, Yondu Udonta saved Quill with an Aero-Rig, telling him that Ego may have been his biological father, but he wasn't his "daddy."
 die]]
Udonta then gave him the only holographic space suit, much to Quill's horror, as he knew that would leave Yondu defenseless against the vacuum of space. As he frantically tried to give it to Udonta, he was stopped by his adopted father, who used the last of his strength to silently told him that it was okay, and Quill broke down crying as Udonta ultimately succumbed and died, devastated over the death of the only father figure he ever had. 

### Life on the Quadrant

#### Yondu Udonta's Funeral

 ]]
 
In the wake of Yondu Udonta's death, Quill came to realize that Udonta was the father figure in his life he had always been searching for before Kraglin Obfonteri and the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy burned the body as part of a Ravager funeral. Obfonteri gave Quill a 'Zune' that Udonta had bought for him that contained 300 tracks that 'everyone' on Earth was now listening to while Quill gave him Udonta's Yaka Arrow.
 
Quill listened to his new Zune with Groot before noticing the arrival of the other Ravagers who had heard about Udonta's sacrifice and re-accepted him as one of their own, with the tributes being led by Stakar Ogord. Quill and the other Guardians of the Galaxy watched as Udonta was honored with a proper Ravager funeral and Gamora hinted to Quill that she possibly reciprocated his feelings, with the two embracing. 

#### Traveling in the Galaxy

 ]]
 
In addition to the Quadrant, the Guardians of the Galaxy acquired a new ship with an auxiliary pod ship attached, which they dubbed the Benatar. During several missions, Star-Lord and the others flew to Grundar, Gangalor and Falligar. 
Four years later, Quill told a now-adolescent Groot to tidy his room and to stop wasting his time playing a video game. Quill then noted that Groot acted the same way he had as a teenager, commenting that now he knew how Yondu had felt when dealing with him when he was one. James Gunn reveals Groot is not quite a teenager in the mid-credits scene By this time, Quill had acquired a new helmet identical to the one Ego broke and resumed using his Jet Boot Attachments. James Gunn on Twitter - May 7, 2023 

### Infinity War

#### Asgardian Distress Call

 
 
In May 2018, Quill piloted the Guardians of the Galaxy in their new ship, the Benatar, to respond to a distress signal sent out by the Asgardians in their ship, the Statesman. When Rocket questioned why they were answering the distress call, Gamora told him that it was because people were in trouble. Quill told him that they were also doing it to see what kind of reward they could have got but had to reassure Gamora that he was only saying that for Rocket's benefit. They entered the air space and were startled upon seeing the wreckage of the Statesman and realized they were too late. As they looked upon the floating dead bodies, they were startled when an unconscious man landed on their ship.
 ]]
After bringing the man inside, Quill was put off by his team's fascination over him. Both Drax and Gamora were taken with his physique. When Mantis woke the man up, he was introduced to them as Thor. In an effort to overshadow Thor, Quill deepened his voice and tried to imitate him, much to his team's irritation. Once Thor filled them in on Thanos' quest to collect all the Infinity Stones and wipe out half of the universe's life, he departed for Nidavellir with Rocket and Groot. Quill led Gamora, Drax and Mantis to Knowhere to stop Thanos from obtaining the Reality Stone. 

#### Tracking Down the Reality Stone

 ]]
 
While traveling to Knowhere, Quill was told by Gamora to promise her that if she was captured, then he would kill her rather than let her be taken. When Quill asked why she told him that she knew something that her father had to never find out. Quill wanted to know what it was, but Gamora refused to tell him. Quill promised to kill her if the time came, and they kissed, but the moment was ruined by the presence of Drax who had been watching them.
 to Knowhere]]
After arriving in Knowhere, Quill led the team out of the ship and watched as Thanos brutally interrogated the Collector for the whereabouts of the Reality Stone. Despite Quill's attempts to get his team to listen to him, they went ahead inside the Collector's museum to spy on Thanos.
 under control]]
However, Drax almost compromised the Guardians' position due to his anger of Thanos' campaign killing his wife and daughter. Quill attempted to convince him to wait, noting that Thanos did not have the Stone yet, thus they could still take it from him before he noticed. His attempt was unsuccessful, however, with Drax ignoring Quill, prompting Mantis to force him to sleep in order to prevent him blowing their cover, but Drax fell onto the ground, making a loud noise which alerted Thanos.
 assess the situation]]
Before Quill could give combat instructions to Gamora and Mantis, Gamora swiftly attacked Thanos without waiting, engaging in melee combat with her sword Godslayer. However, while Thanos managed to destroy Godslayer, Gamora quickly fatally stabbed him, with the remains of Godslayer and the switchblade Thanos had offered her as a child. Their victory was short-lived as Thanos revealed that it had been a ruse. He already possessed the Reality Stone and had engineered the entire situation to capture Gamora. He effortlessly took Mantis and Drax out of the fight with the Stone.
 ]]
Quill confronted Thanos threatening to kill him if he did release Gamora. Quill was reminded by Gamora his promise to kill her if she was captured by Thanos. Reluctantly, Quill pointed his Quad Blaster at Gamora, though Thanos was skeptical that Quill would have had the courage to follow through on his promise. But, as they confessed their love to each other, Quill finally pulled the trigger. However, the Blaster only fired harmless bubbles which Thanos used the Reality Stone to transforming the blaster into bubbles. Thanos was impressed with Quill for having the courage to do what was necessary and stated he like him. Then Thanos teleported himself and Gamora away with the Space Stone, leaving an astonished Quill behind with the broken Godslayer, as Drax and Mantis reconstituted themselves in the absence of the Reality Stone's effects. 

#### Meeting the Avengers

 ]]
 ?|Doctor Strange and Star-Lord|Avengers: Infinity War}}
Quill, acting on a tip from Nebula, left Knowhere and travelled to Titan. After seeing a Q-Ship that had just crash-landed, the Guardians of the Galaxy entered it and attacked Peter Parker, Tony Stark and Doctor Strange each believing the other to be working for Thanos. However, after a tense stand-off, in which Quill threatened to kill Parker, while Stark did the same for Drax. When Quill mentioned he was against Thanos, Strange confirmed they were on the same side upon asking what master he served, to which Quill sarcastically replied "Jesus," which confirmed they were on the same side. When Parker told them they were the Avengers, Mantis recalled what Thor had told them, and Quill commented that Thor was not that good-looking, to Parker's visible disagreement.
 come up with a plan]]
After walking out of the Q-Ship, Quill noticed that the gravity was off on the planet. Stark, Parker and Quill then formulated a plan on how to deal with Thanos when he would arrive, although Stark and Parker became irritated with Drax and Mantis, asking what they contributed, too, on Quill's team. During the conversation, Drax mentioned the dance-off, in which Parker asked if it was like , leading Quill to comment that it was the best movie ever made, but Parker told him it never was, much to Quill's disappointment. Mantis then alerted them to Strange levitating and after Stark went up to him, he told them that he activated the Time Stone to view all possible outcomes and futures of the coming battle. Worried, Quill asked how many he saw, as Strange saying he had seen exactly 14,000,605 possible timelines, Strange gravely informed the others that only one timeline ended in Thanos' defeat. 

#### Battle of Titan

 ]]
 
Quill remained hidden when Thanos arrived on Titan and engaged Doctor Strange in conversation. Once Strange engaged in a fight with Thanos, Quill quickly took position behind him and began to close in, shooting him with his Quad Blasters to gain his attention.
 at Thanos]]
Running on Tao Mandalas conjured by Strange to dodge blasts from the Power Stone, Quill managed to discreetly plant an explosive on Thanos' back. Taking a moment to quickly insult Thanos and escape through a portal conjured by Strange, the Guardian detonated the explosive, briefly stunning Thanos. Later, Quill flew back into the battle and launched a Gravity Mine at Thanos using his Blasters, ensnaring his right arm. After Nebula arrived, Drax, Strange, Tony Stark, Peter Parker and Mantis worked together to restrain Thanos.
 ]]
Quill then confronted the half-conscious Thanos and demanded the location of Gamora. At this remark, Thanos began to react in anguish, with Mantis sensing that he was mourning. Nebula began to realize in horror and sadness that he was, in fact, mourning Gamora, having sacrificed her on Vormir for the Soul Stone. In denial, Quill angrily asked Thanos to tell him that Gamora was alive, only for Thanos to lament that he had no choice but to kill her, confirming Nebula's suspicions. Enraged, and despite Stark's attempts to restrain him, Quill began to ruthlessly attack Thanos without thinking, inadvertently breaking Mantis' control over Thanos. This caused Thanos to blast Quill, Drax and Nebula with the Power Stone, knocking them out. 
 ]]
The three all had their souls removed by Thanos with a single wild shockwave from the Soul Stone. After he pummelled a moon at the planet, Parker saved the three unconscious Guardians, where their souls were restored by Mantis. When Quill regained consciousness, he flew over firing at Thanos, but his blasters didn't cause him any injury. Thanos then created a wormhole and left Titan, leading Quill to realize that they had just lost. 

#### Thanos' Victory

 ]]
 
Quill, being helped to his feet by Mantis, regrouped with the others. Suddenly, Mantis alerted them to something and disintegrated into dust. Quill became alarmed and watched in horror as Drax disintegrated next. When Quill realized he was next, Tony Stark told him to remain steady, but he, too, disintegrated into dust. 

#### Returning to Earth

 ]]
 
Five years later, as a result of the Blip, Quill was restored to life. He, along with Mantis, Drax, and Peter Parker were informed by Doctor Strange that five years had passed. Strange then used his Sling Ring and opened an Inter-Dimensional Portal, transporting them to the destroyed Avengers Compound on Earth to join the battle against an alternate Thanos and his army.
 ' army]]
Quill returned to Earth for the first time in three decades and stood alongside the assembled heroes and their allies, as Steve Rogers led the charge against the opposing army. Quill fired at alternate Thanos' army from the skies using his Jet Boot Attachments until he was dragged down to the ground, where he fought off a group of Sakaarans. However, they overpowered him, knocking him to the ground and were about to finish him when he was suddenly saved.
 Gamora]]
When he looked up, he discovered Gamora standing before him, unaware that it was one from an alternate timeline. Confused, he approached her, and went to caress her face, but she stopped him and knocked him to the ground, telling him not to touch her, as she had not met him before. When Nebula joined them, Quill looked to her in confusion about Gamora, wondering what was going on. The battle was concluded when Tony Stark used the Infinity Stones to wipe out alternate Thanos and his army. Quill stood alongside T'Challa and watched as the army disintegrated. All the heroes, including Quill, who was next to Valkyrie and Nebula, then knelt out of respect for Stark's sacrifice. 

### Guardians Reassembled

#### Tony Stark's Funeral

 's funeral]]
Following the Battle of Earth, Quill became known to the citizens of Earth, although they referred to him as "Star-Boy." A documentary about him called A Pal to All Planets: The Peter Quill Star-Boy Story was created and was available for purchase at the New Jersey AvengerCon. Ms. Marvel': Every Single Hidden Reference at AvengerCon A week later, Quill and his reunited team attended Tony Stark's funeral at Stark's house in New York, where they paid respects to their fallen comrade. 

#### Search for Gamora

 Gamora]]
 
After receiving the Benatar, Quill attempted to leave Earth as fast as he could, despising the planet as he still associated it with his mother's death. James Gunn on Twitter - April 7, 2020 Quill flew from New York to New Asgard, Norway in order to pick up Thor, who was joining them. While Rocket went outside to wait for Thor, Quill searched for alternate Gamora, who had disappeared.
 ]]
When Thor boarded the Benatar, he asked what their next destination would be, touching the map, which Quill moved back, feeling insecure about his position as leader. He then reaffirmed his status to Thor as the rest of the team then suggested that they should fight each other for leadership, which they both laughed off, saying it would not be necessary because Thor saw him as leader. Quill's short time on Earth resulted in the citizens learning of his existence, and he was featured at the New Jersey AvengerCon. 

### Adventures with Thor

#### Traveling the Galaxy

 ]]
Over the next two years, Quill and the Guardians of the Galaxy welcomed Kraglin Obfonteri into the team, while helping Thor lose weight and get back into shape. At one point, they let Thor pull the Benatar for strength training. During a journey to a swamp-filled planet, Quill and the Guardians fought off swamp creatures while Thor watched from his perch on a rock. Other times, Quill helped listen to Thor inside the Benatar. 

#### Battle of Indigarr

 ]]
 
In 2025, Quill and the Guardians traveled to Indigarr, thinking it would be a "relaxing holiday." They instead ended up facing Habooska the Horrible and his army while also accompanied by Korg, Thor's friend. As Thor was meditating to find peace within himself, Quill and Mantis went to ask him for help to win the battle, which he accepted, and he flew away on top of Stormbreaker. Quill returned to the battle, insulting the invaders, and using his Quad Blasters to kill the army.
 showing off]]
Taking cover from enemy fire, Quill watched Thor give a pep talk to King Yakan and the other Indigarrians to motivate them to win the battle, making Quill excited that Thor was finally going to fight the invaders. Quill watched in annoyance as Thor stopped two ships, as he was showing off his fighting skills, and ended up making his way to the Sacred Temple, killing Habooska and leaving the entire palace destroyed. After saving the Indigarrians, Quill and the Guardians received the thanks of King Yakan. 

#### Leaving to Answer Distress Calls

 ]]
 
The Guardians of the Galaxy then returned to their ship and grew annoyed with Thor's parting gift from the Indigarrians: two always screaming goats. They argued over the noise until they recieved many distress signals. Star-Lord opened up the signals to find calls about Gorr the God Butcher. Quill swiped through many of the calls until Thor told him to go back to one. He then saw his friend Sif calling for Thor. The god knew he had to do something. Quill agreed and decided they should split up.
 ]]
Quill talked to Thor outside, who wanted to find Sif. While showing respect for each other, Quill told Thor that he was the oldest person he had met who did not have love. Quill talked about Gamora and how Thor needed someone he loved to make him feel shitty because feeling that way is better than feeling nothing. Before leaving, Quill told Thor that if he was ever lost, just look at the people he cared about. Quill looked at his team, but Thor tried to get Quill to look at him instead. The two of them did a handshake before separating. 

### Operating from Knowhere

#### Buying Knowhere

By December of that year, the Guardians bought Knowhere from the Collector and decided to rebuild it so that it was liveable again after it had been destroyed by Thanos. They also acquired a new ship as their main source of transportation, and were joined by Cosmo, a superpowered dog who they previously encountered on Knowhere in 2014. 

#### Christmas Celebration

 ]]
 
With Christmas coming up, Quill started getting sad and grumpy. He walked outside to see Bzermikitokolok, who created a song based off of Christmas stories. He wanted Quill to say if it was accurate. The band started to play the song "I Don't Know What Christmas Is (But Christmastime Is Here)," but they were very wrong, horrifying Quill.
 ]]
Later, Quill was alone in his room when he heard music playing. He tried to follow it and made his way outside. Suddenly, Christmas lights turned on. Quill looked around amazed at the festivities as snow started coming down. He looked at the Guardians of the Galaxy and realized they put it together. Suddenly, Groot walked out wheeling a huge present. Quill excitedly approached it only to hear a voice from inside.
 ]]
Quill quickly unwrapped it, shocked to see Kevin Bacon come out, greeting Star-Lord. Quill asked Mantis why she would do that, but Mantis believed she did good. Quill told her it was human trafficking, but Rocket pointed out that the best present to get the man with everything was a human being. Quill made Mantis remove the spell from Bacon. When the actor woke up, Quill tried to calm him down, but it did not work as Bacon ran away. Quill had Nebula go after him.
 say goodbye to Kevin Bacon]]
Later, Bacon returned, saying that he wanted to celebrate Christmas with them. Bacon then sang with Bzermikitokolok and the Knowheremen as Quill excitedly listened to his hero play music. During the performance, Quill gave Groot a present; his very own GameBoy, which made Groot jump up in excitement and then gave Quill a present which was a carving of how Mantis and Drax kidnapped Kevin Bacon. At the end, Bacon and the Guardians hugged before Kraglin Obfonteri took him home. Bacon remarked how he would see them at Easter. 

#### Family Revelations

 ]]
 
High up on a balcony, Quill talked with Mantis, thanking her for what she had done. However, he could not figure out why she would do it. Mantis revealed that Obfonteri told them the story of how Yondu Udonta ruined Christmas. Quill told her that in the end, they made up and gave each other gifts. She also said that she did it because Ego was her father too. When Quill realized that they were siblings, he hugged Mantis, saying that was the best Christmas present he could have received. 

#### Adam Warlock's Attack

 using his Zune]]
 
By 2026, during the rebuilding process of Knowhere, Quill had fallen into a deep state of depression over the loss of Gamora. Quill would spend his days in the bar, getting drunk, and passing out. One day while drunk in the bar, Quill noticed Rocket using his Zune, so he snatched it back. After collapsing, Quill was carried out by Nebula, who put him to bed, where he mistook her for Gamora.
 against Adam Warlock]]
Quill was awoken that night when Rocket was attacked by Adam Warlock. Quill retrieved his Quad Blasters and rushed to the armory where Adam was attacking Rocket and Mantis. Quill blasted Adam multiple times, knocking him backwards until Drax the Destroyer grabbed Adam and threw him outside. Quill went to help Drax, but Mantis called out to her brother, telling him they needed Med-Paks, as she and Rocket had been injured. However, when Quill placed the Med-Pak on Rocket, it malfunction and hurt him, so they took him to the Bowie. 

### Conflict with High Evolutionary

#### Saving Rocket

 ]]
 
The Guardians of the Galaxy rushed Rocket to the Med-Bay in the Bowie, where they discovered that he had a kill switch inside of him. They learned that they could acquire a passkey from OrgoCorp, so with time running out before Rocket would die, Quill determinedly headed to the cockpit and prepared to depart.
 discuss returning to Earth]]
Quill contacted Kraglin Obfonteri and Cosmo the Spacedog and ordered them to watch over Knowhere while they were gone. Nebula informed Quill that she had a contact that could help them get inside the Orgoscope, so Quill told her to message them. Once they arrived outside of the Orgoscope, Quill lowered the security shields while talking with Mantis about the people he had lost. Mantis mentioned his family on Earth, but Quill claimed that she was all the family he needed. They discussed Quill's grandfather, who Mantis felt he should visit, but Quill ignored her. 

#### Reunited with Gamora

 ]]
 
After passing through the security shields, the Bowie was boarded by the United Ravagers, so Quill tried to calm everyone down before a fight broke out. Nebula revealed that they had an appointment with Gamora, which shocked Quill, as he was then reunited with the alternate version of his girlfriend.
 about their relationship]]
As the Guardians were supplied with OrgoCorp uniforms, Quill spoke with Nebula about not telling him she was in contact with Gamora. Quill then asked Gamora about being a Ravager, but she forgot who he was. After listening to Stakar Ogord explain the plan, the Guardians, joined by Gamora, donned their Space Suits and descended onto the surface of the Orgoscope. While waiting to get inside, Quill spoke to Gamora about how they loved each other and the possibility of them getting back together, but Gamora turned him down, stating that she was a different person. 

#### Infiltration into the Orgoscope

 in Orgoscope]]
 
After getting inside, they were immediately discovered by Master Karja, but Quill was able to maintain their cover. However, they did lose their Space Suits, but Quill told the team they would find another way out. They then split into two teams, with Quill, Nebula, and Gamora retrieving the passkey, while Drax the Destroyer and Mantis accessed the spaceport so they could escape.
 ]]
Spotting an employee named Ura, Quill attempted to charm her, pretending that his name was . However, Gamora interrupted Quill and threatened Ura with a gun. Quill argued with Gamora about her tactic, believing that Ura liked him, but she stated that she thought Quill was a douchebag. As they waited for Rocket's file, Quill pestered and compared Gamora to the other version of her that he loved, which frustrated her. When Gamora claimed that pointed out how the description fitted Nebula, Quill started to look at her longingly, causing Nebula to snap at him.
 ]]
They obtained the file, but as they went to leave, they were surrounded by guards. Using Ura as a hostage, they escaped into an elevator, where Quill explained his history with Gamora to Ura. Exiting the elevator, the three discovered Drax and Mantis fighting the Orgosentries. Quill and Gamora headed to the security hub, where Quill managed to trick Ura into helping them. Ura let Quill access the system, and he hacked into the Orgosentries' suits, making them malfunction. The Bowie arrived at their location and Guardians were able to escape, with Quill helping Nebula walk. 

#### Visiting Counter-Earth

 's suffering]]
 
On the Bowie, the Guardians of the Galaxy viewed Rocket's file, and witnessed in horror the torture that he underwent at the hands of the High Evolutionary. They discovered that the passkey had recently been deleted by Theel, who Quill encountered in the Orgoscope, so they decided to track him down and recover it.
 to the one he loved]]
Gamora objected to the plan, knowing that it would be a trap, but Quill was determined to face-off with the High Evolutionary and ignored her warnings. Gamora demanded to be dropped off with the United Ravagers, referring to them as her people, which Quill disagreed with. Quill once again tried to tell Gamora that she could be the person that he loved, but this only angered her and she attacked him. Nebula protected Quill from her sister and tells her they won't put Rocket's life at risk for her. Gamora calls Nebula a traitor for siding with the "gutted badger" over her family, but Nebula said he was family too, and Gamora storms off.
 's advice]]
While traveling to Counter-Earth, Quill listened to his Zune until he was approached by Drax the Destroyer. Quill was surprised as he listened to Drax make an analogy, in which he compared Quill pursuing multiple women to leaping across lily pads in a great pond, but now he had to learn to swim. When Quill questioned Drax's newfound ability to create analogies, Drax proceeded to do more, only to fail. Quill turned around and discovered Mantis hiding, making him realize that she had been behind Drax giving him advice.
 ]]
As they arrived at Counter-Earth, Nebula informed Quill that Rocket's lungs were filling up with fluid and that he would soon be dead. The Guardians landed on the planet, which Quill noted was a replica of Earth. They exited the Bowie, where they were surrounded by the Humanimals, so Quill attempted to greet them. However, the Guardians were immediately met with hostility and violence, so Groot scared them away. One of the Humanimals, Neelie, fell over, so Quill gently approached her and helped her up. She invited the Guardians into her home.
 ]]
As they sat down, Quill tried to explain to Neelie their situation, but he was unsuccessful due to her not understanding the language. Making things more difficult while trying to communicate with Neelie, Quill also had to stop Nebula and Mantis from arguing with each other, as well as telling Drax off for laying down on the couch multiple times. Quill then decided to draw Theel, which Mantis and Drax were impressed by. Neelie recognized Theel from the drawing and directed Quill towards Arte Laboratories, which was where he was stationed.
 ]]
Quill asked to borrow Neelie's car, and he split up the team so that Mantis and Drax would stay by the ship to protect Rocket while he went to Arte Laboratories with Nebula and Groot. After Quill gave Groot his Quad Blasters, they entered the car but Nebula had difficulty, so Quill had to instruct her on how to open the door. Having never driven an Earth car before, Quill had trouble at first, leading Nebula to volunteer, but Quill chose to keep driving. As they headed to Arte Laboratories, they looked around Counter-Earth and saw only crime, homelessness, and violence. 

#### Battle of Counter-Earth

 ]]
 
Once they arrived at Arte Laboratories, the three were greeted by War Pig and Behemoth, who revealed that High Evolutionary was waiting for them. Nebula was forced to wait outside due to her weapons, so Quill and Groot proceeded without her. They were brought to High Evolutionary, but he made them wait. This frustrated Quill, so he went to confront Theel about the passkey. High Evolutionary finally spoke, telling Quill about how he built Counter-Earth, but Quill did not care.
 shooting all of their enemies]]
Quill demanded the passkey, but High Evolutionary wanted them to bring him Rocket. When Quill brought up what was done to Rocket in the past, High Evolutionary claimed that he did it to build a better universe. However, Quill doubted this after seeing the disarray of Counter-Earth, so High Evolutionary decided to bomb the planet and left the room. As the ship ascended, Quill told Groot to attack, so he pulled a grenade out from his body and threw it at the enemies. Quill reclaimed his Quad Blasters from Groot, and the two of them skilfully worked together to kill everyone in the room.
 out of Arte Laboratories]]
Leaving only Theel alive, he begged Quill to spare him. Quill lowered his gun and tackled Theel out of the ship, sending them falling towards the planet as it was being destroyed. As they plummeted, Quill was grabbed by Groot, who created wings from his body to slow their descent. Quill held Theel below him, killing him once they hit the ground, allowing Quill to pry off the cybernetic on his head to retrieve the data he needed. Quill spotted the Bowie crashing towards them, so he told Gamora to use the brakes, and she was just able to avoid crushing them.
 hug Rocket after saving him]]
Quill took control of the Bowie and piloted it off of Counter-Earth as it exploded, dodging away from the explosions. Once they were safe, Quill rushed to Rocket in the Med-Bay to upload the passkey. However, the passkey was not working fast enough and Rocket flatlined. Quill refused to let his friend go, so he desperately began preforming chest compressions on Rocket, despite Gamora telling him to stop. Quill was able to revive Rocket, and they healed his wound with the Med-Pak. With their friend's life saved, Quill and Groot hugged Rocket. 

#### Fighting High Evolutionary

 ]]
 -looking, wannabe, purple nurple piece of... He hung up.|High Evolutionary and Peter Quill|Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3}}
They made contact with Nebula, who Quill was relieved to learn was still alive. However, Nebula revealed that she, Drax the Destroyer, and Mantis were inside Arte Laboratories to rescue Quill and Groot. High Evolutionary captured Nebula, Drax, and Mantis, and spoke to Quill, telling him to bring him Rocket or he would kill their friends. Quill refused to hand over Rocket and began insulting High Evolutionary, but their communication was cut off.
 from Adam Warlock]]
Star-Lord made contact with Kraglin Obfonteri and told him to pilot Knowhere to their location. As they prepared for the fight, Gamora gave Star-Lord the polaroid of him with his mother and grandfather. They then flew through a Jump Point and headed towards Arte Laboratories, splitting off into three ships. Adam Warlock flew into Star-Lord and Gamora's ship, causing it to spiral. As they crashed into Arte Laboratories, Star-Lord dove to get him and Gamora, along with Blurp, out of the ship, having programmed the self destruct sequence to defeat Adam.
 's forces]]
Rocket and Groot joined them inside Arte Laboratories, and they prepared to rescue Nebula, Drax, and Mantis. However, the three arrived at their location, riding on Abilisks, so Quill changed the plan to escaping off the ship. But, Quill was informed of the prisoners on board that needed to be saved. Rocket immediately went to rescue the prisoners, so the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy followed him. They entered a hallway that was filled with High Evolutionary's guards and Hell Spawn, and as a team, they managed to successfully defeat every single enemy.
 defeat High Evolutionary]]
Star-Lord went the hole in Arte Laboratories to make the shield permeable, while Gamora, Drax, Mantis, and Groot rescued the Star Children, and Rocket and Nebula piloted the ship. Cosmo the Spacedog connected the two ships together, and once the children arrived, Star-Lord helped them pass through to Knowhere. Once the children were safe, Star-Lord noticed that Rocket was not with them, so the Guardians went to find him. They found Rocket fighting High Evolutionary, so they joined in, with Star-Lord shooting him in the chest. Once defeated, Rocket, however, chose to let High Evolutionary live.
 ]]
The Guardians went to leave, but Rocket informed them that there were still animals trapped, so they quickly rescued them, while the ship exploding. As they ran towards Knowhere, which began to break off, Star-Lord dropped his Zune, so he went back for it. Star-Lord rushed through the exploding ship and managed to jump out before it was completely destroyed. However, he was too far away to make it to Knowhere, and he began to freeze to death in space. Star-Lord was saved by Adam, who carried him to Knowhere, where he was hugged by the Guardians. 

### Moving Back to Earth

#### Leaving the Guardians

 ]]
 
Martinex and Mainframe arrived to pick up Gamora, so Quill greeted them as they waited for Gamora. Before she departed, Gamora told Quill that she was not the person he wanted her to be. Quill finally accepted this reality, and voiced his appreciation for this other version of Gamora. As she went to leave, Gamora commented that she imagined they were fun together, which comforted Quill, as he told her they were.
 as captain]]
Quill then told Nebula that he needed to talk to the Guardians of the Galaxy, so they all gathered in the bar. Quill revealed to the team that he intended to leave and return to Earth, having spent his whole life running since his mother's death, and know he finally needed to "learn how to swim," as per Mantis' advice. One by one, the rest of the Guardians revealed they were also leaving the team, leaving only Rocket Raccoon, who was saddened by this. Quill appointed Rocket as the leader of the Guardians, claiming that the galaxy still needed protecting, and they all saluted him.

#### Reuniting with His Grandfather

 on Earth]]
 
Before leaving Knowhere, Quill gifted Rocket Raccoon with his Zune, having gone back to get it for Rocket. Quill then returned to Earth, and located the house where his grandfather lived in Missouri. Quill was invited inside and was reunited with his grandfather, who immediately recognized his grandson after decades. Quill was embraced by his grandfather, who was overjoyed to see him. 
 with his grandfather]]
Quill stayed with his grandfather in his house. One day, while they were having breakfast together, they discussed one of their neighbors who needed help mowing their lawn. Quill told his grandfather that he would be happy to do it, although he felt that the responsibility should fall upon their neighbor's son. Quill's grandfather agree with his annoyance, alluding to a bigger issue with his neighbors, which made Quill curious, although his grandfather just read the newspaper, which reported on Kevin Bacon's alien abduction. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Former Powers

 
 
*Hybrid Physiology: Due to his heritage, he was part-Celestial and part-human, giving him superhuman abilities. Even while not having awakened his celestial power, Quill had enough power to briefly survive while holding the Power Stone on his own and after awakening his full power, was able to challenge his father, a true Celestial, who had easily subdued the other Guardians. Although he still has hybrid DNA, he lost his cosmic powers after Ego died.
**Superhuman Strength: Quill possessed a great level of superhuman strength, although he was unaware of it, as he fought equally against Gamora, a Zehoberei with considerable strength. James Gunn on Twitter - August 19, 2022 During his fight with Ego, Quill was able to enhance his strength to the point that he could match his father on relatively equal terms, enough for his punches to affect Ego and was also able to pin him against a cliff and throw him against some rocks.
**Superhuman Durability: 's energy]] Due to his paternal heritage from Ego, Quill held considerable amounts of supernatural durability and endurance to the point that he even was able to physically withstand the exposure to the energy from an Infinity Stone. Quill survived direct attacks from Gamora without suffering lethal damage and later he held the Power Stone for a short length of time without dying and was able to harness its power when sharing the burden with the other Guardians. Quill himself also noted that he was able to survive numerous injuries while working for the Ravagers, though none were implausible enough to raise any suspicion. He was also capable of withstanding the strong blows of the Abilisk tentacles without damage to his body. During the Battle on Ego's Planet, Quill survived the explosion of the Construction Drilling Vessel with no injuries. When he fought Ego, he was able to withstand Ego's attacks and only had minor injuries at the end of the fight. Quill was able to use his cosmic power to enhance his physical strength and durability to the point where he was almost immune to damage, allowing him to easily smash through stone and survive crashing into the ground at bullet-like speed.
**Regenerative Healing Factor: After holding the Power Stone in his bare hands, Quill sustained severe burns and scars all over his body. Thanks to his latent Celestial powers, he was able to heal all his injuries with no trace of scar tissue in the remaining time before his meeting with the Nova Corps mere days later.
**Immortality: While battling his father Ego, Star-Lord was informed by him that Quill could never die as long as Ego's essence was still alive, unless killed by an exterior force. This was shown when he succumbed to the Snap.
**Cosmic Manipulation: As a Celestial, Quill had the ability to manipulate the cosmic forces to do nearly anything his mind imagined.
***Cosmic Energy Manipulation: manipulating light]] While on Ego's planet, Ego taught him how to manipulate cosmic energies and how to use it to create solid constructions by drawing energy from the planet. He once created a ball to play catch with his father, like he always dreamed of. He could even empower his fists with cosmic energy to produce superhuman physical strikes, such as when he did with his father moments prior to Ego's death.
***Molecular Manipulation: ]] While battling Ego, Yondu Udonta's encouragement allowed Star-Lord to realize his ability to manipulate matter. He used it to propel himself into the air at a high velocity. He was able to construct things and weapons out of matter, such as gloves of rock to punch his father and later he enveloped himself into a giant Pac-Man to counter the giant materialized by his father.

### Abilities

 
*Expert Combatant: Quill is a highly skilled and formidable hand-to-hand combatant, having trained from a young age in Ravagers. He was even able to stand his ground against Gamora, the finest assassin trained by Thanos, in a fist fight. He uses his two blasters as melee weapons to strike and knock his foes unconscious with a hard strike to the head with great skill. He was able to easily take down multiple Nova Corps, Kyln and Sakaaran soldiers by striking them with the blasters. Quill also managed to easily subdue and hold the superhuman, but inexperienced Spider-Man at gunpoint during their brief skirmish, as well as dodge blasts sent at him by Thanos using the Power Stone and even plant an explosion on Thanos himself, although he did have aid from Doctor Strange's use of Eldritch Magic to conjure platforms, which helped him maneuver through Thanos' attacks and plant the device.
 
*Expert Marksman: soldiers]] Having been instructed by Yondu, Quill was well-versed in the use of weapons from all over the galaxy, but he preferred using his own Quad Blasters, which he was shown to be accomplished with. He also handled a Kyln Guard's rifle, a weapon he was not believed to have ever seen before, and easily shot and destroyed a drone with it. He even accurately shot Spider-Man during their skirmish and trapped him long enough to hold him at gunpoint.
 
*Master Tactician: Quill is an exceptional tactician, as shown when after finding Iron Man's plan to suck, Quill took the lead and made his own plan to stop Thanos and was nearly successful until he broke the group's hold on him after going into a rage on learning Gamora's death. He also played a key role in fighting and coordinating strategy during the Battle of Xandar.
 
*Master Thief: Raised by the Ravagers, Quill is highly trained in the art of thievery and evasion. Though Star-Lord has a criminal record, thievery is not one of the charges, though Rhomann Dey picked him up for petty theft.
 
*Master Pilot: into battle]] Quill is an accomplished starship pilot. He used this skill to escape Korath and his men on Morag. When being ambushed by the Sovereign, Quill was able to maneuver his ship around a quantum asteroid field while simultaneously feuding with Rocket. Drax the Destroyer said himself that "you have to be the greatest pilot" to get through the field.
*Multilingualism: Quill is fluent in his native English, and he can also understand Groot after spending four years with Groot.

## Equipment

### Weapons

*Quad Blasters: Quill carried dual direct energy weapons in the form of handguns. They each have two triggers for the index and middle finger for the top and bottom barrel respectively, with the bottom barrel shooting lightning and the top barrel shooting fiery bolts or blasts. While the fire-like blast on the top barrel is lethal, killing its live targets on impact and even sends the target flying backwards with great force, the bottom barrel produces streaks of nonlethal electricity to electrocute its targets and incapacitate them. He used his two blasters as melee weapons in the past to strike and knock out his foes, specifically Kyln Guards, with a strike to the head. He was even shown striking enemies with the barrels while shooting the lethal setting, which allowed him to hit harder and harm stronger opponents. While fighting Thanos on Titan, he demonstrated being able to load specialized projectile attachments onto the barrel of his weapons, one of being a stunning device powerful enough to cause Thanos pain.
*Nova Machine Gun: Quill stole this gun from a Kyln guard to shoot down attacking hoverbots during his escape.
*Energy Bolas: A hi-tech version of an ancient throwing weapon made of weights on the ends of an interconnected energy cord, designed to capture targets by entangling their legs. During the Attack on Peter Quill, Star-Lord used these Bolas to try and subdue Gamora, although she quickly escaped.
*Hadron Enforcer: Designed and built by Rocket, the Enforcer shoots a concentrated bolt of nuclear explosive force that only detonates on its target. The mass and size of the target determine how large the explosion will be. Rocket claimed it could destroy a moon. He briefly handled the weapon in the Guardians plan to kill Ronan the Accuser, but has not held it since.
*Power Stone: During their final battle with Ronan the Accuser, Quill and the other Guardians of the Galaxy used the Power Stone in tandem to direct the Stone's energy at Ronan, destroying his body and killing him.
*Switchblade: Quill used a switchblade to remove the database from Theels head.

### Other Equipment

*Helmet: Quill owned a helmet that shows threats on HUD and has internal comm systems. The helmet allowed him to breathe in the vacuum of space. When he pressed the button on the side of his head, light blue energy wrapped around his face and the back of his head and became the helmet. After his first helmet was destroyed by Ego, he acquired a replacement.
*Jet Boot Attachments: ]] Quill formerly owned jet attachments that he affixed to his boots to make jet boots, while he activated them with buttons on his leg. The jet attachments can rotate in any direction and can be used to propel him through the air at great speed, though they do not allow for sustained flight and only allow him to jump and briefly float for several feet. They can also be used in flying in deep space due to the lack of gravity and weight removing the limitations they experience in environments of normal gravity. Quill improvised the technology as weapons by attaching one of them on a hostile and activated them, which sent the target flying backwards. Quill initially retired them in favor of using Aero-Rigs, although he resume using them for the Infinity War before discarding them for good.
*Translator Implant: Star-Lord has a translator implant in his neck that helps him understand many of the languages spoken in the universe.
*Lock Pick: A small device designed to automatically open doors, used on the one guarding the Temple Vault in Morag to effortlessly enter the room storing the Orb.
*Plasma Sphere: One of Peter Quill's gadgetry and weapons is a glass-like ball that much like a glowstick, lit up when shook. It was dangerous when shattered, as it could ensnare and disintegrate living creatures in a cloud of its released plasma, though it quickly diminishes.
*Holo-Map Projector: Part of his arsenal and tools is a holographic device given him by the Broker. Quill was able to project a Holographic Map on the planet Morag of the size of a football field and projected what was there before, even people moving around. Quill scanned the ruined temple area of Morag and could identify the creatures and people living their before. It could also highlight a certain area red to show Star-Lord where it detects a certain object. This is how Quill knew to go up the temple stairs to find the Orb.
*Gravity Mine: A device that could exert greater amounts of the force of gravity on a designated object and gravitate it towards itself was in Quill's possession. It could generate gravity as powerful as a planet and pull something to itself as if the object were in a planet's orbit. If it is not programmed to pull a certain object while active, it will pull everything in a 1-foot radius towards itself at great speed. Quill used this to incapacitate Korath's troops before it was shot and destroyed.
*Orb: Star-Lord was hired to get the Orb for the Broker. However, the Broker backed out on him which caused a chase for the orb involving Quill, Groot, Rocket, Gamora, Ronan's army, and the Ravagers.
*Aero-Rigs: using Aero-Rigs to fly]] Quill used one of Rocket Raccoon's jet-pack like devices to seamlessly fly through the air, giving him great mobility in combat. Unlike his jet boot, the Aero-Rigs allowed Quill sustained flight to any altitude.
*Holographic Space Suits: When the Guardians of the Galaxy killed Ego, Yondu Udonta flew in and saved Quill. He then put the suit onto Quill as they went into space, sacrificing himself.
*Med-Pak: Star-Lord used a med-pak to heal Rocket after Adam Warlock's attack.
*Space Suit: A special suit used to survive in the vacuum of space. Quill and the other Guardians used the suits until Mantis accidentally threw them away.

### Earth Memorabilia

Much of his personal items from Earth traveled with him when he was taken by the Ravagers as a child. His ship, the Milano, once housed this memorabilia, with the songs from his Walkman being able to be played on the ships sound system, with what appeared to be a stereo being added to the ship. The ship was abandoned on Berhert.
 
*Sony TPS-L2 Walkman Headset: Quill was very protective of his Sony Walkman; when deprived of it in prison, he challenged a guard for its return but was electrocuted in response. He received it from his mother, along with two mixtapes containing several songs from the 60's all the way through to the '80s. Unfortunately, this Walkman was destroyed by Ego after revealing to Peter that he put the tumor inside Meredith Quill's head.
**Awesome Mix Vol. 1: Meredith Quill put together a mixtape named Awesome Mix Vol. 1 so that her son could listen to songs she used to listen to when she was growing up.
**Awesome Mix Vol. 2: When Meredith was dying from cancer and gave her son a second mixtape as a gift, as moments before she died. However, Quill never opened his gift and kept the tape as one of the few mementos from Earth. After he and the other Guardians of the Galaxy members saved Xandar from Ronan, he finally opened his mother's gift. Unfortunately, the cassette was inside the Walkman when Ego crushed it.
* : A type of plastic doll with furry up-combed hair, depicting a troll. Quill uses it as a memento from Earth. After the attack on Xandar was over, Yondu proceeded to capture the Orb, only to realize there was a troll doll inside, and Quill kept the Orb to put it into the custody of the Nova Corps.
* 
* 
*Puffy Stickers: An assortment of ALF Puffy Stickers was used all over the Milano, sticking towards his cassette deck.
* : Quill had a few stickers that were sticking onto his cassette deck, these stickers are made so that when scratched, they release a scent. This scent is normally related to the image displayed.
*Zune Music player: Zune was a brand of digital media products and services marketed by . Kraglin Obfonteri gave Quill a Zune as a present from Yondu after his death, intended to be given upon Quill's return to the Ravagers. Obfonteri said Yondu, "Found it at a junker shop" and "it has over three hundred songs." This replaced the Walkman destroyed by Ego. 
*Mattel Electronics Football Tracker: While the Guardians of the Galaxy were hired by the High Priestess Ayesha, leader of the Sovereign race to defend some batteries from the Abilisk, Quill used a monitor to track down the creature so that team would know where it was coming.
* : When Groot started to go into his adolescent years, he began to play Quill's Defender game. He would spend practically all his time on it wherever he went, including meeting Thor and helping him forge a new weapon.

### Vehicles

*Milano: The Milano was the original ship of the Guardians of the Galaxy, which they use to travel across the galaxy. However, following the Escape from the Sovereign Fleet, it was badly damaged and left behind on Berhert unrepaired.
*Mining Pods: On Knowhere, Quill escaped Ronan by taking a mining pod. However, Gamora was shot out of hers and there was only room for one person. So Quill saved her and had Yondu Udonta pick him up.
*Eclector: The Ravager's ship was the Eclector. Quill was picked up by Yondu Udonta on Knowhere shortly after he left the Ravagers. After, The Guardians of the Galaxy thought of a plan to save Xandar.
**Quadrant: After the Battle on Ego's Planet, Quill and the Guardians got away on the Quadrant where they watched Yondu Udonta's Ravager funeral.
*Ego's Ship: Quill flew on Ego's ship to his planet after he met him.
*Construction Drilling Vessel: Quill and Yondu Udonta used a laser drill to drill deep enough into Ego's core in order to plant a bomb on his brain.
*Benatar: The Guardians of the Galaxy used the Benatar following the destruction of the Milano. They responded to a distress call on the ship, causing the team to meet Thor and learn that Thanos was looking for the Infinity Stones. Later the Guardians flew to Knowhere and to Titan to defeat Thanos. Five years later, Star-Lord returned to life and the team again took off in the Benatar, leaving Earth with Thor.
*Bowie: Quill, alongside the Guardians used the Bowie following the Guardians buying Knowhere and selling the Benatar for the bigger ship. He ordered Kraglin to use it to take Kevin Bacon back to Earth, after Drax and Mantis had kidnapped him for Peter's Christmas gift. The Guardians later used it to investigate Rocket's past to save Rocket's life, with Quill blowing up the Bowie's pilot area pod to incapacitate Adam Warlock during the Attack on Arte Laboratories.

## Facilities

*St. Charles Elementary: Quill attended St. Charles Elementary when he was a child, before he was abducted by the Yondu Ravager Clan.
*Apartment: Quill resided with his own apartment while living in Exitar on Knowhere.
*Quill Residence: When Quill returned to Earth, he moved in with his grandfather and step-grandmother's house.

### Prisons

*Kyln: Quill was an inmate designated at the Kyln, an interstellar prison operated by the Nova Corps, after being initially arrested on the Xandarian homeworld for charges of endangerment to life and the destruction of property. He was sentenced to the Kyln to serve time for his many other crimes that he had committed preceding his arrest.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Jason Quill - Maternal Grandfather
*Maternal Grandmother 
*Step-Grandmother
*Ego  - Father, Attempted Killer and Indirect Victim
*Meredith Quill  - Mother
*Maternal Uncle 
*Aunt 
*Mantis - Paternal Half-Sister and Former Teammate
*Paternal Half-Siblings 
*Adoptive Grandfather
*Adoptive Grandmother
*Yondu Udonta  - Adoptive Father, Former Leader, Former Teammate, and Savior

### Allies

*Higgins - Former Teacher
*Kevin Bacon - Idol and Friend
*David Hasselhoff - Idol
*Fitzgibbon
*Ravagers
**Yondu Ravager Clan - Kidnappers and Former Teammates
***Horuz 
***Vorker 
**United Ravagers
***Stakar Ogord
***Martinex
***Mainframe
***Krugarr
***Gamora - Savior, Former Teammate, and Friend
*Bereet - Former Love Interest
*Broker
*Guardians of the Galaxy - Former Teammates
**Rocket Raccoon - Former Enemy, Successor, and Best Friend
**Gamora  - Former Attempted Killer and Former Love Interest
**Groot - Former Enemy and Close Friend
**Groot - Close Friend and Surrogate Son
**Kraglin Obfonteri - Close Friend
**Cosmo - Close Friend
**Adam Warlock - Former Attempted Killer and Savior
**Phyla
**Blurp
*Drax the Destroyer - Former Teammate and Close Friend
*Nebula - Former Attempted Killer, Former Teammate, and Close Friend
*Moloka Dar  - Former Fellow Inmate
*One Legged Prisoner  - Former Fellow Inmate
*Tivan Group
**Taneleer Tivan/Collector
**Carina 
*Nova Corps - Former Enemies
**Irani Rael
**Rhomann Dey
**Garthan Saal 
*Avengers
**Steve Rogers/Captain America
**Tony Stark/Iron Man  - Temporary Enemy
**Peter Parker/Spider-Man - Former Attempted Victim and Savior
**Bruce Banner/Hulk - Resurrector
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye
**James Rhodes/War Machine
**Sam Wilson/Falcon
**Wanda Maximoff 
**Scott Lang/Ant-Man
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel
*Masters of the Mystic Arts
**Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange - Temporary Enemy
**Wong
*Golden Tribe
**T'Challa/Black Panther 
**Shuri
*Dora Milaje
**Okoye
*Jabari Tribe
**M'Baku
*Border Tribe
*Wakandan Royal Guard
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier
*Asgardians
**Thor - Former Teammate, Friend, and Former Rival
**Brunnhilde/Valkyrie
**Einherjar
*Warsong
*Korg
*Miek
*Einherjar
*Howard the Duck
*Hope van Dyne/Wasp
*Pepper Potts/Rescue
*Yakan
*Glenda
*Toothgnasher
*Toothgrinder
*Bzermikitokolok and the Knowheremen
**Bzermikitokolok
**Kortolbookalia
**Sliyavastojoo
**Phloko
*Hoobtoe
*Xlomo Smeth
*Steemie Blueliver
*Orloni Peddler
*Ura - Situational Ally
*Neelie 
*Till 
*Abilisks - Former Enemies
*Star Children
**Latti
**2KK9090
*Phlektik - Former Enemy
 

### Enemies

*Ronan the Accuser  - Attempted Killer and Victim
*Korath  - Attempted Killer and Attempted Victim
*Sakaarans
**Maskless Sakaaran 
*Head Riot Guard 
*Angry Guard 
*Mean Guard 
*Monstrous Inmate 
*Sovereign
**Ayesha  - Former Employer and Attempted Killer 
**Sovereign Admiral
**Sovereign Chambermaid
**Zylak - Attempted Killer 
*Thanos  - Killer
*Thanos 
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw 
**Cull Obsidian 
**Proxima Midnight 
**Corvus Glaive 
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
**Chitauri Gorillas
*Outriders
*Sakaarans
*Booskans
**Habooska the Horrible 
*OrgoCorp
**High Evolutionary - Attempted Killer
**Orgosentries
***Karja
***Kai-El
**Kwol
**Carrot Head
**Theel  - Victim
**Vim 
**Murf
*Blue Jay 
*Hell Spawn
**War Pig 
**Behemoth 
**Octo-hyena 
*Controller 
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearance for Star-Lord
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
*** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
*** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
* (drawing) 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
* 
* (photo & mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* (voice) 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
*** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
*** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
* (drawing) 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
* 
* (photo & mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* (voice) 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Peter Quill was originally a NASA astronaut whose mother was killed by aliens and who ended up assuming the mantle of the Star-Lord, an interplanetary policeman. This version of the character was later retconned in another reality. The mainstream version of Quill was taken into space at a young age, after having witnessed his mother being killed by a group of Badoons, and ended up imprisoned at the Kyln. He later formed a team called the Guardians of the Galaxy. He is the son of J'son of Spartax.
**In Guardians of the Galaxy, Quill has a NASA patch on his backpack.
*Quill is 304 microbules tall and weighs 1419 grets. Star-Lord's biometrics 
*Quill's Walkman was a blue from 1979.
*Chris Pratt stated in an interview, that the shirt Star-Lord wears in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, is the name of a space candy called "Gear Shift."
*Quill is a fan of Blue Swede, Raspberries, Norman Greenbaum, David Bowie, Elvin Bishop, 10cc, The Jackson 5, Redbone, The Runaways, Rupert Holmes, Five Stairsteps, Marvin Gaye, Tammi Terrell, Electric Light Orchestra, The Sweet, Aliotta Haynes Jeremiah, Fleetwood Mac, Sam Cooke, Glen Campbell, George Harrison, Looking Glass, Jay and the Americans, Cheap Trick, Cat Stevens and The Spinners, Rainbow, Spacehog, The Flaming Lips, Faith No More, and Beastie Boys.
**Quill is also a fan of 1984 movie and the game .
*Quill is the first character in a Marvel Cinematic Universe film who audibly swears the word "fucking."

## Behind the Scenes
 
*Chris Pratt stated that Quill: "...had a hard time as a kid, and now he goes around space, making out with hot alien girls and just being a rogue and a bit of a jerk, and through teaming up with these guys, finds a higher purpose for himself." Hero Complex - Los Angeles Times 
*Before Chris Pratt was casted at Star-Lord, , , , Lee Pace, , , , , Logan Marshall-Green, , , James Marsden, , , , Michael Rosenbaum and John Krasinski auditioned and screen tested for the role.
*According to Chris Pratt, Star-Lord is a mix of and . Guardians of the Galaxy: From the Set of the Marvel Studios Adaptation 
*James Gunn originally discussed with Marvel Studios the possibility of making a stand-alone project starring Star-Lord as a possible spin-off to his Guardians of the Galaxy trilogy before leaving to manage after the release of Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3. James Gunn talks SUPERMAN, CREATURE COMMANDOS, BATMAN, LANTERNS, Marvel I Happy Sad Confused 
*Jan Petrina, Daniel Stevens, Ben Wright, Tony McFarr and Chris Romrell were stunt doubles for Chris Pratt in the role of Star-Lord.
*James Henderson and Clay Chamberlin were stand-ins for Chris Pratt in the role of Star-Lord.

## References

 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 

 

de:Star-Lord
es:Peter Quill
fr:Star-Lord
pl:Star-Lord
pt-br:Senhor das Estrelas
ru: 
uk: 

Category:Characters
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy (film) Characters
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 Characters
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Thor: Love and Thunder Characters
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 Characters
Category:The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Celestials
Category:Males
Category:Brown Hair
Category:Green Eyes
Category:Criminals
Category:Mercenaries
Category:St. Charles Elementary Students
Category:Ravagers Members
Category:Kyln Inmates
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Members
Category:Infinity Stones Users
Category:High Body Count
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Brainwashed Characters
Category:Resurrected Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Thanos