Rocket 
|alias = 
|derivatives = P13 
|nicknames = Rabbit }}
|species = Halfworlder (evolved raccoon) 
|DOD = Mid-Late 2026 (briefly; revived) Disney+ - "Marvel Cinematic Universe in Timeline Order" 
|snapped = No 
|gender = Male
|affiliation = Batch 89 (formerly) (formerly) 
|movie = Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3}}
|tv series = I Am Groot (2 episodes) }}
|tv movie = The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special
|docuseries = Legends *The Avengers Initiative *Rocket
|comic = Guardians of the Galaxy Prequel Infinite Comic Guardians of the Galaxy Prelude Guardians of the Galaxy: Galaxy's Most Wanted Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 Prelude Avengers: Infinity War Prelude (flashback) Avengers: Endgame Prelude
|book = }}
|actor = Sean Gunn (on-set actor) Oreo (movement & behavior) 
|voice actor = Bradley Cooper Sean Gunn (young) Noah Raskin (baby) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Subject 89P13 is a raccoon who was genetically and cybernetically modified by High Evolutionary, giving him enhanced intelligence and the ability to speak. Naming himself Rocket, he befriended fellow captive Halfworlders Lylla, Teefs, and Floor, with the four believing they would soon be allowed to live in peace on a new planet. While aiding High Evolutionary in perfecting his experiments, Rocket discovered that he, along with his friends, were slated to be killed. Rocket attempted to free his friends, only for High Evolutionary to kill Lylla. Rocket then attacked his former master, mutilating him, which inadvertently resulted in the deaths of Teefs and Floor. Afterwards, Rocket boarded a ship and fled into the cosmos.

While traveling the galaxy, Rocket befriended Groot, and the pair committed crimes and picked up bounties. In 2014, they met Star-Lord, who convinced them to assist him in selling the Orb, which was being sought after by Ronan the Accuser, for a massive profit. However, when they discovered that the Orb contained the Power Stone, Rocket was convinced to risk everything to stop Ronan's plans from using the Infinity Stone to destroy Xandar. During the Battle of Xandar, Rocket managed to assist his friends in destroying Ronan, although this resulted in Groot being killed. Rocket then became a member of the Guardians of the Galaxy alongside the newly planted baby Groot.

Rocket continued working with the Guardians when they were hired by the Sovereign to slay an Abilisk. However, Rocket took the job as a way to steal Anulax Batteries with the intention to later sell them. This angered Ayesha, causing her to declare war on the Guardians and hire the Ravagers to capture them. Rocket and Groot were soon captured by Taserface under Yondu's command, forcing Rocket and Yondu to work together in order to break free and kill Taserface. During his time with Yondu, Rocket learned how to better himself and wishing to save his Guardians family, joined Yondu for the Battle on Ego's Planet.

Four years later, the Guardians rescued Thor after the Asgardians were slaughtered by Thanos, who had initiated the Infinity War. The Guardians split up; while the rest of the team returned to Knowhere to find the Reality Stone, Rocket and Groot accompanied Thor to Nidavellir to obtain Stormbreaker. Using the Bifrost Bridge, the trio traveled to Earth to join the Battle of Wakanda, where he fought alongside Winter Soldier. Their efforts to stop Thanos were unsuccessful, and Rocket was one of the only Guardians to survive Thanos' subsequent mass slaughter, along with Nebula. Rocket joined the Avengers on their trip to the Garden, where he witnessed Thor decapitate Thanos.

Rocket spent the next five years as a member of the Avengers under the command of Natasha Romanoff. In 2023, after discovering how to traverse through time safely, Rocket and Thor traveled back in time to 2013, where he extracted the Aether from Jane Foster on Asgard. With all six Infinity Stones used to resurrect the victims of the Snap, Rocket participated in the Battle of Earth against an alternate Thanos and his army. Having paid his respects at Iron Man's funeral, Rocket then left the Avengers and rejoined the Guardians as they resumed their cosmic adventures, with Thor joining them.

Rocket and the Guardians went on several missions with Thor, including the Battle of Indigarr. However, following the threat of Gorr the God Butcher, Thor left the team to help the Asgardians while Rocket and the other Guardians returned to the cosmos. Upon buying Knowhere from the Collector, Rocket worked with Cosmo to rebuild it, and on one occasion, they celebrated Christmas with Kevin Bacon.

Shortly after rebuilding Knowhere, the facility was attacked by Adam Warlock, who mortally wounded Rocket whilst trying to retrieve him for High Evolutionary. Any attempt to heal Rocket was found to be fatal due to his cybernetic implants, prompting the rest of the Guardians to look into Rocket's past to be able to save him. They were ultimately successful and Rocket joined his friends as they sought to liberate the rest of High Evolutionary's experiments. Upon learning that he was indeed a raccoon, he dubbed himself Rocket Raccoon and joined his fellow Guardians in a battle against his former creator, whom he chose to spare. Following the battle, the other Guardians left the team, including Star-Lord, who appointed Rocket as the new team's leader. Rocket then led the new iteration of the Guardians comprised of himself, Groot, Obfonteri, Cosmo, Adam Warlock, Phyla, and Blurp as they continued to protect their galaxy.

## Biography

### Genetic Experiments

#### Taken from Earth

 reaches for 89P13]]
 
A litter of baby raccoons were taken from Earth and brought to space by a powerful being by the name of High Evolutionary, who placed them a planet named Halfworld. Inside Arête Laboratories, the batch of raccoons playfully huddled together until one raccoon in particular was selected by High Evolutionary and named Subject 89P13. 89P13 shivered in fear as High Evolutionary's hand gloomed over 89P13 to grab him.
 ]]
89P13 was then subjected to experiments by High Evolutionary who wanted to create the perfect society. 89P13 was handled by Theel as High Evolutionary took a knife and cut into the raccoon, drawing blood. As the experiments went on, the code of 89P13 was etched into the subject. On one occasion, 89P13 was strapped with his hands and feet bound as they worked on him. 

#### Befriending Batch 89

 
 
At the end of the first experience, 89P13 had become more sentient. Theel took the subject and threw him into a cage where he landed hard on the floor. There, he was met by three other experiments. There was an named 89Q12, a names 89A95, and a rabbit named 89L06. The rabbit crawled over to 89P13, excited to see the new subject. However, 89Q12 was more kind.
 ]]
She talked to 89P13 and let him catch his bearings. 89P13, who's head was completely shaven, then spoke for the first time as an effect of the experiments. He struggled at first, but remarked at how much he was hurting. 89Q12 took a towel of the ground and carefully wetted it with her tongue before placing it on 89P13's forehead to sop up the blood. She assured him he was going to be okay. Due to being a young raccoon, 89P13 had no memory of his previous life and origin. 

#### Fun between Torture

 ]]
 
As 89P13 was still being experimented on, he coped by playing with his best friends in their cages. Now being able to run on two legs, he ran around the cage as 89L06 chased him. 89A95 and 89Q12 laughed at the playful nature of the two. They began to form a friendship through their torture as they were the only company any of them had.
 ]]
However, High Evolutionary began noticing a pattern of intelligence within 89P13. He sat down in his room with 89P13 on his lap. The two talked as High Evolutionary watched 89P13 do some equations on a chalk board. High Evolutionary marveled on the accuracy of the equations. A curious 89P13 then asked about the sounds playing over the speakers. High Evolutionary talked about how it was music and the emotional ties to the music. 89P13 then asked about the aircraft taking off outside. He sat in awe as it lifted off into the atmosphere. High Evolutionary told him it was a rocket. 

#### Choosing a Name

 
The High Evolutionary then invited 89P13 to witness his demonstration of a new genetic mutation chamber. The subject of choice was a . 89P13 watched as Theel loaded the subject into the chamber. They then pressed a button, sending beams onto the turtle and mutating it into an anthropomorphic creature.

The turtle then lashed out at the glass, angry. High Evolutionary complained that the device had been unable to suppress violent behavior in the subjects' post-transformation, much to his shock and the High Evolutionary's frustration. As he and his assistants debated on what could be done to fix this, 89P13 was able to identify flaws in the machine and single out the root cause of the mutation problem, stunning them all with his ability to think independently.
 
89P13 returned to his cage. He began to grow sad as he monologued to the group. 89Q12 then announced that she had chosen a name. She wanted to be called Lylla. 89P13 remarked at the name, saying it was nice. This brought 89A95 to call himself Teefs as even though everyone had them, his were the most prominent. 89L06 continued the trend, naming herself Floor as she was laying on the floor.
 
89P13 sighed as he was cheered up. He then went to choose his own name. Still being fond of the rocket he saw earlier, 89P13 decided to name himself Rocket. He vowed that one day, he and his friends would all fly away together, into the beautiful sky forever, Lylla, Teefs, Floor, and him: Rocket. 

#### The Truth

 
A while later, Rocket was summoned by High Evolutionary back into the test chamber to once more watch the experiments unfold. Initially, he was harshly interrogated by his maker on how he managed to perfect the process; but once he regained his composure, the High Evolutionary informed him that, with Rocket’s insight, they finally reached a breakthrough. Delighted with success, Rocket became excited with the prospect that they would finally touch down into the colony on Halfworld, but the High Evolutionary brutally shot him down.
 
He explained that Batch 89 was never meant for the new world, but was instead regarded as a series of mistakes to learn from towards the creation of the perfect society; he even mocked his subject over this, wondering how the raccoon was able to solve the issue affecting the mutations but not realize his own fate. Still, the High Evolutionary regarded him as a noteworthy subject, expressing his desire to dissect Rocket's brain for study, and gave the order to incinerate the rest of Batch 89 by the following morning. 

#### Flying Away Together

 
 
Rocket was carried back and thrown into his cage by Theel. As Batch 89 asked what was wrong, Rocket did not answer and instead pulled off many pieces of metal from the floor. He told Floor that he could not play at the moment. Instead, he used these scraps of metal that he had been secretly gathering to make an item. He held up the item: a key card.
 
Rocket then used this card to let him and Floor out, telling them the truth that they were never meant to go to the new world. He then let out Lylla. The two of them hugged as they spun in a circle. Lylla then held Rocket as they shared a moment. However, this moment was quickly interrupted as there was a shot heard. Lylla's smile faded as she collapsed. Behind her was High Evolutionary, who had shot Lylla. As Rocket looked at his friend, she remarked at how she could see the sky.

In his grief, Rocket let out a long and awaited wail. This crying annoyed High Evolutionary who brutally mocked him before telling Rocket to get back into his cage. However, Rocket refused as he lunged at High Evolutionary, clawing at his face. High Evolutionary screamed in pain as Rocket mangled his face into shreds. When he was done, Floor was begging Rocket for them to just leave.

Suddenly, High Evolutionary's guards arrived. They began shooting as Rocket grabbed his own gun and shot back. He killed the guards and turned around victorious, only to see Floor and Teefs, dead on the ground having been shot. Rocket stared back at his friends, having lost everything. He then ran for the exit and was able to escape. 

### Bounty Hunter

#### Meeting Groot

Rocket began becoming a thief, racking up a criminal record that included thirteen counts of theft, twenty two counts of escape from his incarceration, seven counts of mercenary activity, and fifteen counts of arson. He was eventually arrested and thrown into a dungeon where he met a Flora colossi named Groot and a man named Tibius Lark, who was dying from his wounds.
 
Rocket talked with Lark and heard Groot's story of being a zoo exhibit until Lark broke him out. Lark liked Rocket and asked him a favor: to protect Groot when Lark could not anymore. Lark then passed away. As Rocket realized Lark's fate, he also realized that he was a robot. Thinking quickly, Rocket was able to create a weapon out of Lark's robotic limbs. He then hopped onto Groot's shoulders and the two broke out of the dungeon. Rocket kept his word and protected Groot from then on. James Gunn on Threads - July 10, 2023 

#### Deals at the Hub

 
Rocket and Groot made their way in the galaxy performing various acts of dubious legality. On one such adventure, Rocket and Groot made their way to the Hub without money and desperate for a job in order to buy fuel for their vehicle. A job came their way via Sqqd'li, under the orders of his employer the crime lord Zade Scraggot, who hired Rocket and Groot to retrieve a package being held in the highly secure "Uptown" section of the station for a thousand credits.

Rocket and Groot successfully retrieved the package, but upon discovering that the package contained a family of sentient Scalluscs, a snail-like creature that Scraggot was planning on harvesting for their shells, Rocket and Groot rescued the Scalluscs from their cruel fate after a brief scuffle with Scraggot and his men. 
 
Afterwards, Rocket and Groot were on a mission to capture Baldo and bring his to D'Xtar. Upon arriving at D'Xtar's place, he told them he couldn't pay because of the recent bounty on Rocket's head. Rocket stormed away angry. Suddenly a Bounty Hunter recognized him as that man on the bounty. He attacked Rocket, he ran into an alley with Groot. His partner then tried to grab him, Rocket broke free from Groot, who he believed betrayed him. Rocket locked himself in a building, but the Bounty Hunter was waiting for him and explained that he set up the bounty so that Rocket would not give him competition. Groot then broke in and scared the hunter into cancelling the bounty. Rocket realized that Groot was only trying to protect him, and he apologized. 

#### Encountering Star-Lord

 begin to look for bounties]]
 
In August 2014, Rocket and Groot traveled to Xandar, where he staked out potential bounty targets in a crowded plaza. While looking at the many Xandarians, Rocket ranted about how absurd the people looked such as insulting a man with a haircut, a child walking with his guardian, and a suspicious person talking to a woman. As Rocket was laughing at the locals, he turned to Groot and noticed him drinking water from a fountain, telling him to stop doing that in disgust.
 as a worthy bounty]]
After Rocket had caught Groot lying about drinking, he picked up a signal from device and spotted Peter Quill with Bereet. As Rocket looked over Quill's stats, he noted that Quill was wanted for forty thousand Units and told Groot that they were going to be rich, before looking at Groot drinking the fountain again in despair. Moments before Star-Lord had tried to set up a deal with Broker and Gamora attempted to steal the Orb from him, Rocket intervened at the attack and tackled her with brute force.
 with force]]
While Rocket tried to tell Groot to capture Star-Lord, he began to yell at him for mistaken for Gamora, before he was bitten in the hand by Gamora. As Rocket told Gamora to stay calm, he was thrown away for several feet and landed onto an open glass store. Gamora then prolonged her mission to capture the Orb and went after Star-Lord before they fought each other. As Star-Lord had celebrated his victory of defeating Gamora, Rocket ordered Groot to capture him.
 's quick recovery]]
Groot then trapped Star-Lord with a huge bag and Rocket told him to quit smiling so they could act like professionals. Rocket's victory was short lived once Gamora recovered and shoved him away. After Gamora attacked Groot by slicing his arms off, she was then stunned by Star-Lord's Quad Blasters and proceeded to escape. Rocket took note of Star-Lord's escape and proceeded to shoot him down with his Laser Cannon.
 ]]
As Rocket taunt at Star-Lord's defeat, he noticed that Groot was saddened by his loss of arms. Rocket then noted that Groot's arms will grow back and told him to stop whining. Suddenly as the Nova Corps arrived at the scene, Rocket and Groot were hovered over and was told to drop his weapon. In a minor inconvenience, Rocket dropped his weapon in dissatisfaction and was arrested under the authority of the Nova Corps. 

#### Held in the Kyln

 ]]
 
Once they all arrived in their holding cells, Rocket and the others were forced into a line up by the Nova Corps where all of their own criminal histories were presented for Garthan Saal by Rhomann Dey. Frustrated by his experience with the intergalactic law, Rocket began to growl while crossing his arms and spat on the ground.
 for his sentence]]
The group were all sent to the Kyln by Saal to begin their sentence, where they all arrived together and continued their disagreements. After bragging about escaping twenty-two prisons and telling Peter Quill that he was lucky he was arrested, Rocket was told about being comparable by a normal raccoon. Hearing this, Rocket asked Quill what a raccoon was, and Star-Lord told him that it was what he was supposed to be before telling him that there was nobody like him. With Quill questioning what Gamora had planned for the Orb, Rocket listened to her plans on betraying Ronan the Accuser and selling the Orb to someone else.
 's limited vocabulary]]
As Groot kept talking, Quill wondered why he could only say three words repeatedly, Rocket explained that Groot would not speak well enough as the people like him and Quill, as his vocabulary was restricted to "I", "am", and "Groot". Once Quill spotted one of the guards using his own Walkman and quickly stepped through the doorway into the guard's quarters in order to ensure it, Rocket watched as the situation escalated with Quill being electrocuted.
 ]]
Rocket and all the others were then processed by the Nova Corps as he was stripped down and washed, abusing him. Soon finding himself escorted into a prison cell with Quill, Rocket was given his prison uniform and began dressing up, unknowingly having Quill looking behind his back with his cybernetic implants being shown off. Rocket and the other members of the group had finished being processed and stepped into the prison compound.
 prison]]
As Rocket and the group walked inside the compound, he told Quill that the prison guards were determined to stop prisoners from getting out and they should not care for what they were doing inside their cells. As Quill found himself a target in the prison when a Monstrous Inmate attempted to start a fight, Groot saved him from by defeating him as Rocket claimed that Quill was their booty and no one else was to go near them or else their go through them.
 
Rocket went to sleep in the group quarters while Quill was concerned for Gamora's personal cell where the prisoners were. With Quill overhearing Gamora being abducted by one of the guards as well as some of the other prisoners, Rocket woke up and asked where Quill was going before he escaped from his cell. Rocket followed Quill up until Drax the Destroyer stopped to kill Gamora and Quill intervened, persuading him to kill Ronan the Accuser instead.
 ]]
As Quill left the room and told Gamora that she knows where to sell the Orb, Rocket joined in and confirmed that the group will eventually get out of Klyn, despite wanting Quill as his bounty. Gamora confessed afterward that the Orb was priced by her buyer for four billion Credits and offered to split the profits, and Rocket agreed to formulate a plan to break the four from the prison. 

#### Escape from Kyln

 ]]
 
The next day, Rocket came up with a plan to break Peter Quill, Gamora, and Groot out of the Kyln, as a team they would collect a prisoner's prosthetic leg and one of the guards' control devices attached to their arms in order to hack into the security tower. Rocket further explained that a Quarnyx Battery can help him escape and remove the prison's emergency lockdown.
 
Gamora then questioned Rocket of how they should get any supplies, in which he noted that some inmates find her attractive so maybe she could come up with some kind of trade. Quill then expressed his fear that the plan would be impossible to pull off, but Rocket angrily insisted that they should figure it out. As Rocket explained the plan again, the operation went awry when Groot completed the last step first, setting off the alarms and causing him to be frustrated.
 ]]
As Quill and Gamora retrieved the items needed, Rocket was berated by Kyln Hoverbots that were fired at Groot, causing chaos. As Rocket yelled at Groot's mistake for alarming the guards, Drax fought the guards that attempted to fire at him and Groot. Once Drax came to their aid and tossed one of the guards' weapons, Rocket began to shoot the Kyln Hoverbots with great pleasure, while laughing maniacally. Once Gamora gathered the green wiring that was required for the breakout, Rocket caught the item and told Groot move over to the watchtower.
 
As Rocket continued his part of the plan until he was finally ready for all of the others to regroup with him, Rocket climbed up onto Groot's roots in order to get into the security tower. Once the group got into the watchtower and locked the door behind them, Rocket was given a prisoner's leg, in which he then revealed that stealing the leg was simply a joke, annoying Quill due to the money he had spent to get it. The group was soon found by a guard, who had gathered his team as they attempt to shoot the watchtower while Rocket worked.
 
Rocket then initiated his plan by switching off the prison's artificial gravity and took control of the Kyln Hoverbots, and used these Hoverbots to propel the watchtower room from the cellblock and into the prison's docking bay. Now safely out of the way of the Nova Corps, Rocket gathered his clothing while the others prepared to escape into deep space on board the Milano. Quill then went off to collect his Walkman and gave Gamora his bag, claiming it contained the Orb.
 ]]
As the group retrieved their effects, Rocket parked the Milano and stayed behind and ordered the others to take his ship out into space while Quill retrieved his Walkman, much to the group's annoyance. Rocket grew impatient and asked Gamora if she had the Orb, but was discovered to be nothing. As soon as Rocket and Drax noticed Star-Lord arriving, he and the group let him in the ship to give back the Orb. 

#### Gathering Materials

 ]]
 
On the Milano, Rocket began pulling apart bits of his ship to build weapons, including the Hadron Enforcer. Peter Quill then found Rocket's actions and was furiously telling him to stop. Once Quill noted that he did not want any bombs or moon destroying weapons on his ship, Rocket suggested putting the bomb in a box and even tried to use the box of Meredith Quill's present to Quill, to which he insisted to not touch it.
 's crude joke]]
As soon as Quill had a talk to the group about where to sell the Orb, leading to an argument between Drax the Destroyer and Gamora in which Quill was forced to break up as he insisted that nobody kill anyone aboard his ship. Once Quill stated that the group needed to trust each other if they were actually going to start working as a team and Gamora showed little interest in having anything to do with any of them, Rocket listened to Quill's claim about his ship's filthy history, much to his dismissal. 

#### Meeting the Collector

 ]]
 
While piloting the Milano, Rocket informed the group that they were headed to inbound. As Rocket had piloted forward, Rocket was told by Gamora that they were now arriving on Knowhere, a remote mining outpost in space that was built in the giant severed head of a Celestial.
 
As the group explored Knowhere, Rocket listened to Gamora's explanation of her reasoning of picking this particular location as the place to sell resources. Rocket then questioned Gamora if the Boot of Jemiah is where they would wait for the Orb's buyer to summon them. Accepting the locale, Rocket, Drax, and Groot playfully gambled on creatures lives while there while Gamora and Peter Quill conversed just outside.
 for his insults]]
As Rocket had a friendly drink with each other, he soon became drunk enough that he started to pick a fight with Drax for his disrespectful personality, which soon escalated into involving Groot in the fight. Intoxicated, a distraught Rocket accused Gamora and Drax of mocking him and seeing him as a monster, threatening to kill the others. Quill intervened before any harm was done and told Rocket put up with one night before he could be rich, but the outburst had caused Drax to leave.
 ]]
While the group let Drax walk away, they were then greeted by Carina who finally invited them into the Collector's Museum, in which it was housed by several species and items in cages. While Taneleer Tivan summoned them to his museum; Rocket and a cosmonaut dog, Cosmo, snarled at each other as they passed. Tivan found himself interested in Groot, and asked for permission in displaying his corpse as an exhibit, while also referring to Rocket as Groot's pet, which nearly caused another outburst.
 's long speech]]
After formalities were over, Tivan revealed what was inside the Orb: the Power Stone, one of the Infinity Stones, a powerful elemental objects created by the Big Bang; so powerful that only the most powerful of beings were able to wield it, even if the burden of the power was separated among multiple people. Rocket was unimpressed by the explanation of the Stone's power and demanded that Tivan pay them.
 escaping the explosion]]
As Tivan was withdrawing the money to pay the Guardians, his long-suffering assistant Carina, seeing a way to end her misery under Tivan's control, grabbed the Power Stone and shouting about how she will no longer be Tivan's slave. The result was a powerful explosion that disintegrated her and destroyed Tivan's entire museum. Groot managed to pick up and rush Rocket outside before the ensuing purple fireball could harm them, while Quill and Gamora barely survived by hiding from the blast and Tivan escaped with only an injured forehead. 

#### Skirmish on Knowhere

 ]]
 
Escaping away from the power that the Orb had carried, Rocket noticed Gamora had caught it, causing him to be frightened by the item inside it. As Gamora told the group that they should give the Power Stone over to the Nova Corps, Rocket objected her decision and suggested giving the Power Stone to Ronan the Accuser; however, Star-Lord abandoned the idea. Rocket asked why he chose to protect the Galaxy, only to be responded by Quill that he chose to protect the Galaxy for inhabitance.
 army]]
Before they could continue arguing, Ronan and Nebula arrived with their entire army of Sakaarans behind them, as Drax the Destroyer had called his enemy for a chance to kill him to avenge his family. The group then noticed that the Yondu Ravager Clan had also appeared. Rocket and Gamora attempted to fight off Ronan's forces using Mining Pods while Drax tried to fight Ronan and Groot stayed behind. Rocket managed to use his Mining Pod's durability to his advantage by crashing through Ronan's Necrocrafts.
 watch Gamora freeze]]
Pursued by her sister Nebula and several other Necrocrafts, Gamora attempted to flee into open space, but her pod malfunctioned due to its inability to function outside of Knowhere and was promptly destroyed by Nebula. Once Nebula destroyed Gamora's Pod and retrieved the Orb, Rocket and Quill caught up with her unconscious body. As they watched from afar, as their Mining Pods did not have the power to get closer, Rocket sadly informed Quill that Gamora would not survive and to go back into Knowhere.
 he'll die in seconds]]
Once Rocket recommended they turn back before they got trapped, Quill announced his coordinates to the Ravagers in order to reveal his location and exited his Mining Pod. Just as Star-Lord proceeded to exit his pod and flew through deep space to reach Gamora, Rocket protested that he would not be able to survive in the extreme conditions of deep space, but Quill placed his helmet onto her, causing him to leave before they were rescued by the Ravagers.
 ]]
Rocket returned to Knowhere, angered at Drax for allowing Gamora and Quill to be captured and Ronan to retrieve the Infinity Stone. Once Drax accepted his mistake by being overtaken by his vengeance of his family, Rocket insensitively mocked Drax's family's death, telling him that it is no excuse for his actions. Wanting to leave Drax behind, Rocket told Groot that they should leave while they can to the farthest parts of the galaxy and possibly live in peace before Ronan finds them. However, Groot offered to aid Quill and Gamora with Drax wanting help, causing Rocket to angrily kick a patch of grass in response.
 ]]
Rocket then confronted the Ravagers in the Milano, gaining their attention by harmlessly firing upon the Eclector, and used a voice amplifying microphone, threatening to do greater damage. Rocket then ordered the outlaws to release Quill and Gamora while Drax aimed a Hadron Enforcer at them. The tension was resolved when Quill announced that they were fine and had temporarily resolved their conflict with the Ravagers. 

### Guardian of the Galaxy

#### Accepting the Mission

 ]]
 
As the group had reunited inside the Milano, reviewed recent events and decided that it was up to them to prevent Ronan the Accuser from destroying Xandar with his Infinity Stone, Rocket was doubtful that they would succeed, upon hearing that Quill's plan for stopping Ronan was to rob him despite the risk. Star-Lord berated Rocket for nearly blowing up him and Gamora inside the Eclector after giving the Yondu Ravager Clan a count of five.
 
Listening to Quill's rant, Rocket tells Quill that he did not think about the consequence of his plan, blaming what would happen if he became altruistic yet never giving the time to be thanked, having Groot agreeing with him. Gamora then told the group that they would have the Ravagers' help to save Xandar. However, Rocket rebuttal her claim that it they should just give the Stone to Yondu Udonta so he could sell to somebody even worse.
 's partial plan]]
Once Quill told that they might figure something out with Udonta and the Stone, Rocket listened to Gamora's about stopping Ronan with Quill telling him that he could have a plan. Rocket questioned if Quill did have a plan, in which he told him that he had part of a plan, giving Rocket less hope. As the group had continued discussing a plan, Rocket asked Quill about what percentage, in which he expressed twelve percent. Rocket laughed hysterically at Quill, making sarcastic remarks along with it.
 
As Groot told Rocket that the plan was higher than eleven percent, he angrily questioned on Groot's thinking. Quill then told the team that they would know they had lost many things in their lives but now it was the time give a damn about the people in the galaxy. Rocket told Quill that what they were doing to stop Ronanwas impossible, only for the group to come along and agree to fight alongside each other. Being dumbfounded on how they would die fighting for the galaxy, Rocket had no choice but stand up, admitting that he did not have a long lifespan.
 ]]
As the group had then proceeded to stand together, Rocket said that team was standing in a circle like a bunch of jackasses. Rocket then got his weapons ready and prepared for battle, including his Laser Cannon. With the whole team on board with each other, Rocket joined them in a line and quickly adjust to himself before meeting up with the Ravagers with the plan in-store for them. As Ravagers had huddled up, Rocket and the rest of his team were equipped with tiny capsules in case of the Power Stone has been released.
 for battle]]
With the Yondu Ravager Clan, the group outlined a plan to prevent Ronan from destroying Xandar; they would contact the Nova Corps and convince them to aid them, Quill and Yondu Udonta would enter Ronan's ship, the Dark Aster, through a breach created by Rocket and Quill, and they would kill Ronan upon entering his chambers. Rocket attempted to get Vorker's cybernetic eye removed as part of the plan, but was quickly denied by Quill, much to his deep denial by covering up his laughter afterwards. Rocket then went over to pilot the Warbird for takeoff. 

#### Battle of Xandar

 under Dark Aster]]
 
As the plan had settled in, Yondu Udonta sends multiple M-Ships through a breach, along with Rocket and his team flying into Xandar. As the Dark Aster began to fly into Xandar's atmosphere, Udonta ordered his clan to fire at it and tells rest of the team to submerge under Ronan the Accuser's ship.
 s breach]]
With a few Ravagers by his side, Rocket began firing at the side of the Dark Aster, Kraglin Obfonteri had started to do massive damage, making a hole on the ship. Rocket ordered Star-Lord and Udonta to come forward to his location; however, due to being hit by Ronan's ships, Udonta had to abandon the mission. As Star-Lord, Gamora, Drax the Destroyer, and Groot fought off Ronan's army with aid of the Nova Corps, they entered the through a hole into Ronan's ship.
 's army]]
With Quill, Gamora, Drax, and Groot inside the Dark Aster, Rocket aided the Nova Corps and Ravagers in preventing Necrocraft from attacking Xandar. Once the Nova Corps had formed a blockade to prevent the Dark Aster from going any further, Rocket started to fire at multiple Sakaarans attacking Xandar and told Garthan Saal that he would take care of the situation. As Ronan's army grew larger, Rocket and the rest of the Ravagers submerged down and destroyed the many incoming ships.
 ]]
Just as Ronan decided to destroy the blockade with the Power Stone, Rocket witnessed the attack and told Quill to hurry up on heading towards Ronan after having the civilians evacuated but started to lose the battle. In desperation, Rocket crashed the Warbird into the new hole in the Dark Aster, severely damaging both his and Ronan's ships and knocking himself unconscious. 

#### Losing a Friend

 
 
Once the damage from both Ronan the Accuser's use of the Infinity Stone and Rocket's crash caused the Dark Aster to begin falling towards the city below, Rocket was seen by Star-Lord and was picked up to meet with rest of the team. As the ship began crumbling down, Groot had the idea of creating a sphere of branches around his team.
 not to sacrifice himself]]
Seeing what was about to happen, Rocket woke up from getting knocked out and saw Groot creating a sphere of branches around him. As the spores had lit up the room, Rocket realized what Groot was doing and tearfully begged Groot to reconsider, however, Groot gently wiped a tear from his friend's eye before telling him "We are Groot" moments before the ship crashed to the ground. 

#### Killing Ronan the Accuser

 ]]
 
Once the Dark Aster had crashed onto Xandar, Rocket and the others survived, but Groot perished in the crash. A devastated Rocket managed to recover a twig from Groot's remains, recalling of what he had said about telling him that he was an idiot. However, Ronan the Accuser also survived the crash, and as he emerged from the fallen vessel Rocket flew into a rage and charged at Ronan but was easily swatted away.
 ]]
As Star-Lord distracted Ronan's speech on how he will destroy Xandar, by singing and dancing to , Rocket quickly repaired the Hadron Enforcer as Drax the Destroyer went along with behind Ronan's back. As Ronan became furiously impulse by Quill's dancing, Rocket began to blast the purple Infinity Stone out of Ronan's Universal Weapon before Quill told that he was trying to distract him.
 with Drax]]
Quill quickly grabbed the Power Stone, resulting in all its energy coursing through his body, slowly killing him. As Quill was slowly disintegrated by the Infinity Stone's power, Gamora, Drax, and Rocket linked hands to share the burden. As they reversed the Stone's power, the team successfully channeled the Power Stone's energy. Quill then opened his hand, releasing some of the Power Stone's energy, killing Ronan. Gamora then sealed the Power Stone in a containment orb, freeing them of its deadly power.
 's death]]
Quill relinquished the new Orb to Yondu Udonta, though in reality, he switched containers. Rocket then sat alone on a rock, clutching some of Groot's remaining twigs and sobbing bitterly over his best friend's death. Drax approached Rocket and gently pet him between the ears, surprising him and causing him to slightly flinch, as he was used to others acting violent towards him and bringing him pain, but was comforted. 

#### Joining the Team

 after the battle]]
 
In the aftermath of the Battle of Xandar, the newly formed Guardians of the Galaxy discovered that Peter Quill was not fully human, as his father was a member of an ancient alien species, thus giving a possible explanation to why Quill managed to hold an Infinity Stone. Rocket had placed the piece of Groot in a plant pot, from which an offspring began to sprout.
 ]]
With his and the others' criminal records expunged, Rocket joined all the Guardians as they were led outside by Irani Rael to find that as a gift for defeating Ronan the Accuser, the Milano had just been repaired. Rocket then lamented that Rhomann Dey had informed him and the other that they could no longer steal anything or they would all be immediately arrested. Rocket tried to question what he could get away with but found little satisfaction from this.
 at last being reborn]]
Now on board the ship, Rocket strapped himself in the seat and then nodded towards Drax the Destroyer before noticing that Baby Groot was finally waking up. As they all prepared to leave, Quill and Gamora discussed what they should do next, agreeing that they should aim to do a bit of good and bad. They then left Xandar to continue their work as the Guardians of the Galaxy, seeking new employment wherever they could. 

#### Hired by the Sovereign

 
 
After two months of being a team, the Guardians of the Galaxy became well known across the galaxy. The team traveled to Sovereign, where the Sovereign hired the Guardians to take down an Abilisk that was eating their batteries. When the Guardians arrived on the planet, Rocket and the team searched for the Abilisk with Star-Lord's Inter-Dimensional Tracker.
 for his sarcasm]]
While Gamora asked Drax the Destroyer why he was not wearing one of Rocket's Aero-Rigs, Rocket listened as Drax explained that he was uncomfortable wearing it due to his sensitive nipples, causing him to laugh and mock Drax for it. Being asked what he was doing by Drax, Rocket noted that he was setting up a speaker system so they could listen to music as they battled. Drax told him how that was unimportant, causing him to blame it on Quill.
 about his manners]]
Despite Quill agreeing with Drax on the unimportance of music in battle, Rocket insisted that he was being sarcastic. After being exposed for lying and failing at sarcasm, Rocket noticed Groot beating up an Orloni out of spite due to it looking at him funny, to which Rocket had to clarify that it wasn't the case. The Abilisk then arrived from an Inter-Dimensional Portal, much to Rocket's stunned observation. As the Abilisk settled on the platform, the Guardians began to fire at it while Groot danced to music.
 to spit out a fly]]
As Rocket began to fire at the Abilisk with Gamora by his side, the Guardians began to have troubles with fighting it while also giving warnings to Groot to get out of the way before he got hurt. Rocket then noticed Groot trying to eat a fly. He began to tell him to spit it out, knocking him on the head and leaving in disgust, leaving Groot on his own. While Groot was off riding an Orloni on its back, Rocket began firing at the Abilisk with little progress.
 ]]
Once Drax had entered the Abilisk's mouth, Star-Lord told Rocket to get it to look up so that Gamora could kill it by slashing its neck. Rocket began firing at the Abilisk before it became angry enough to burp up bubbles from its mouth, causing a minor malfunction with his firearm. While Rocket was still shooting at the Abilisk and Star-Lord was grabbed by it, Gamora then observed its neck and began cutting its neck with her Godslayer to kill the Abilisk for good.
 ]]
After Drax escaped from the Abilisk's insides and the rest of the team looked questionably upon him, the Guardians settled down from the reckless battle as Quill explained to Drax about the Anulax Batteries and how they were worth thousands of Units a piece, which was the reason why the Sovereign needed the team to protect them while warning them about the Sovereign people. Despite Quill's specific orders, Rocket stole a few of the Anulax Batteries.
 ]]
The Guardians then talked to Ayesha and were welcomed by her gratitude for their righteousness to defeat the Abilisk instead of risking her own people. Gamora then requested that the Sovereign release Nebula from her imprisonment and hand her over to them as payment. When Ayesha talked about Quill's father, Rocket told her that he heard the Sovereign were conceited douchebags but told them it wasn't true at all before sarcastically winking at Quill. As the Sovereign became aggressive, the team left the planet before Rocket revealed to Drax that he had stolen some of the Anulax Batteries. 

#### Escape from the Sovereign Fleet

 along with Star-Lord]]
 
As the Guardians left Sovereign and flew away into with the Milano, Rocket told the team that they would have to get Nebula back to Xandar and collect her bounty. As Rocket piloted the ship while playing , the team incarcerated Nebula below the ship.
 ]]
The Guardians were quickly followed by the Sovereign fleet, who were furious with Rocket for stealing their Anulax Batteries. As Gamora questioned the team on why the Sovereign had followed them, Drax the Destroyer accidentally revealed to them that Rocket had stolen their batteries, much to Rocket's anger at being caught. As the Sovereign began to fire at them, the team maneuvered around the field of space to escape the incoming lasers.
 
The team began to avoid the Sovereign fleet while Star-Lord angrily questioned Rocket on what he had been thinking by stealing from the Sovereign, to which Rocket told him that the batteries were easy to steal, causing Gamora to become furious with his petty excuse. Rocket defended his decision by telling the team that the High Priestess Ayesha had talked down to the team and now it was time for the cybernetic raccoon to teach them a lesson.
 fleet]]
Star-Lord claimed that Rocket had good intentions, which Rocket agreed with, only for Star-Lord to tell him that he was being sarcastic, much to Rocket's frustration. Once the argument had been put into placed, the team discovered more Sovereign spaceships incoming, as Rocket began to be in the mood to kill them and started to shout at the top of his lungs while firing them one by one within shooting range.
 
Despite attacking the Sovereign fleet with intent to kill, Rocket was informed by Gamora that the Sovereign's ships were remotely piloted. To escape from the Sovereign fleet, Star-Lord asked Gamora where the nearest inhabitable planet was, as she noted that it was Berhert and in order to fly to towards the jump point is to fly through an asteroid field. As Star-Lord and Rocket flew through the asteroid field, Drax told Quill that this skill requires to be the greatest pilot in the universe, both pilots told Drax that they were the best simultaneously.
 's actions]]
Rocket began to change the piloting positions in order to maneuver around the asteroid field as quickly as possible, he then asked Quill what he was doing switching to pilot the ship, noting to him that he has been piloting the Milano since he was ten years old. Rocket began to argue with Quill that he was cybernetically engineered to pilot a spacecraft, escalating into shouting insults at each other.
 's piloting]]
As Gamora tried to tell the co-pilots to stop bickering, Rocket threatened to put a turd inside Quill's pillowcase, causing Quill to promise him to be fully shaved, to which Rocket noted that won't be his turd but Drax's. As the bickering started to continue by switching each flight position, the ship was damaged from an asteroid that had caused a hole in a ship. As the ship recovered for full throttle, Rocket still began to insult Quill's piloting skill.
 fleet]]
Once Rocket was hit by and object from Gamora, he was told that a Sovereign craft is behind them. As the particular Sovereign craft tried to attack the Milano, Drax began to reach down the co-pilots compartment and used one of the Holographic Space Suits to destroy one of the Sovereign spacecrafts that was piloted by Zylak. Once out of the asteroid field, more Sovereign fleets approached from both sides of the team, causing them to fall under heavy attacks.
 outside of his ship]]
The Guardians remained under attack with no way of defending themselves when they were suddenly rescued by an unknown ship that destroyed the entire fleet within seconds. As Gamora told the group that they were close to a jump point, Rocket noticed a ship fly past with a man riding on top of it, causing him to question what it was, before knowing it was a guy. Once the team had finally reached to Berhert, the ship was badly damaged, causing it to crash. 

### Ravager Conflict

#### Meeting Ego

 ]]
 
After crashing on Berhert, the Guardians began to argue about the destruction of the Milano. Gamora angrily shouted at Rocket and Star-Lord for their actions on who should dominantly pilot the ship. With Gamora putting her half of the blame towards Quill's arrogance, Quill put the blame on Rocket stealing Anulax Batteries.
 ]]
Once Rocket decided to speak for himself, he insultingly told Quill that he stole the batteries because he wanted to, much to Quill's anger, and quietly called him a dick. As Rocket began to rant about their situation, he noted that he saw a man that effortlessly destroyed an entire Sovereign fleet, using an inaccurate measurement of him. When Quill told Rocket that his statement of his eyesight did not work and referred to him as a stupid raccoon, Rocket told Quill not to call him a raccoon, only to get insulted again.
 ]]
As Rocket became bitter towards Quill's insults, Nebula warned the team that an incoming ship had followed them to Berhert. When the exact same unknown ship that saved them from the Sovereign approached the team, Rocket started to prepare for an attack by equipping himself with a blaster rifle. Once the unknown ship had landed with the Guardians properly prepared for battle, they were greeted by a man named Ego and his servant named Mantis. Ego then revealed to Quill and the rest of his team that he was Quill's father. 

#### Getting Put In Charge

 about distinct looks]]
 
On the night the Guardians were informed of Ego's announcement, they learned more about where he has been for all of Quill's life, having to give Quill up to Yondu Udonta in order to return to him only for Quill to be kept under the custody of him. As Quill told the reasoning of his custody for Udonta, Drax the Destroyer told Quill that he thought Udonta was his blood relative, having Rocket explained to Drax that one of them was blue.
 's offer]]
While Ego told Quill that he wanted to be the father he was meant to be, Ego invited the team to his planet and went away from the campfire to urinate before calling Rocket a triangled-face monkey. When Mantis and Drax began to talk to each other about their social interactions, Rocket took the time to lick his hands, leading to Drax tricking Mantis into petting him, almost causing him to bite her hand.
 trading insults again]]
As the next morning had passed, Gamora, Quill, and Drax decided to leave Berhert to go to Ego's planet. Rocket was told by Gamora to keep an eye on Nebula while repairing the Milano with an Nanobot Welder. While repairing the ship, Rocket told Quill that he hopes his father isn't big of a dick as him. After Quill questioned his deal of getting people to hate him and working at it, Rocket witnesses the group leaving the planet before getting into Ego's ship. 

#### Attack on Berhert

 
 
Having the Yondu Ravager Clan being hired by the Sovereign to hunt the Guardians and managed to track them down in Berhert, where Rocket was currently inhabited from, he prepared on setting traps for any incoming threats. Rocket then settled back on top of one of the trees while setting up loudspeakers of some of Star-Lord's music.
 
Once the Yondu Ravager Clan had started to come closer to the destroyed Milano, Rocket sat in a tree humming to on a speaker to lead the Ravagers to the ship only for Halfnut and other Ravagers fell into a trap, having multiple fired needles that quickly injected them, knocking them out instantly. Making noise from the high treetops, Rocket was noticed by one of the Ravagers and avoided the many blasts they fired at him.
 into his traps]]
As the Ravagers still fired at him with their firearms, Rocket used his special device that turns on the anti-gravity mines, sending multiple Ravagers up into the air from each direction they came from and doing it repeatedly with each button input. Rocket eventually move over to a group of Ravagers in a single file line and planted electric disks on each one of their heads. Once Rocket was done setting up the device implants on the Ravagers, Rocket then presses the button to activate the device that would electrocute them simultaneously, as they painfully scream from their demise.
 's arrow]]
As Rocket settled down in the ground, he was approached by Brahl and another Ravager, telling him that he wasn't so tough without his gadgets. Rocket took this advantage by attacking Brahl and punched him in his throat, while the other Ravager accidentally fired at Brahl. Rocket backflipped onto the Ravager and defeated him by punching his face multiple times, only to be overcome by the rest of the Ravagers, including Yondu Udonta and his Yaka Arrow.
 to not hurt Groot]]
While being surrounded by many Ravagers with the threat of Udonta's arrow, Rocket greeted Udonta and was informed that Ayesha had approached him with a deal to get paid by sending the Guardians to her people and kill them. Udonta noted that he tracked Rocket and his with his tracer and planted on the Milano during the Battle of Xandar. Worried for Groot's safety, Rocket decides to give his word out for Udonta to not hurt Groot and would tell him where the Anulax Batteries are.
 ]]
Luckily for Rocket's situation, Udonta decides to not keep his word for Ayesha and steal the batteries for himself in order to sell them for a quarter-million Units. Just as half of the Ravagers had a massive disagreement with Udonta's decision, they drew their guns at each other, and Udonta prepared to whistle his Yaka arrow; as they continued to yell while holding their weapons closer. Rocket tried to withhold the entire Ravager clan as they kept yelling at each other, distracting their attention for one another.
 ]]
Rocket then used the time for the Ravagers' attention and told them there must be some kind of peaceful resolution to their disagreement, only to backtrack his idea and suggest that he stands away from the conflict. Before any violence had been put into display, Nebula, who was released by Groot, knocked out Udonta by shooting off his Yaka Arrow Controller with a blaster and then shot Rocket, leaving him knocked out from his inevitable imprisonment. 

#### Taserface's Mutiny

 ]]
 
After getting knocked from being shocked by an electrical blaster, Rocket, Groot, and Yondu Udonta were taken to the Eclector where Ravagers who sided with Udonta were being executed. Once Rocket recollect his conscious while being tied up, he witnessed Tullk and Oblo, who were forcefully sent into space and Taserface declares his leadership, much to his laughter.
 ]]
When Taserface noticed Rocket was laughing out loud at the declaration of the new leadership of their Ravager clan, Rocket questioned Taserface about his name, learning he only chose it because he thought it sounded intimidating; only to be further questioned, resulting on having Taserface's allies started to lose amount laughter and replace it with some confusion. While Taserface tried to torture Udonta, Rocket still snickered at Taserface's name, much to irritation.
 ]]
Taserface then questioned Rocket on what he was laughing at, to which Rocket responded that he thinks Taserface made up his name in order to sound cool. Further angering Taserface, Rocket guessed Taserface's second choice of his name by calling him scrotum hat, making the entire crew laugh. Now threatened by Taserface, Rocket makes fun of him, calling Taserface a moronic shitbag who thinks his name was cool, before Nebula tells them enough.
 's name]]
As Nebula insisted to hand the group over to the Kree, who would be wanting retribution for Ronan the Accuser's death, the Ravagers decided to leave Rocket and Udonta inside of a cell where Rocket continued to insult Taserface for his name. Speaking out against Udonta's employees, Rocket sat down had a talk with Udonta, resulting into having them share stories of their past. Rocket listened to Udonta about he was Kree battle slave and Stakar Ogord took him in as part of his Ravager Clan but was too young and greedy that he departed from them.
 discuss escaping]]
Udonta then informed Rocket of the reason for his exile due to child trafficking, but despite of sharing their feelings, Rocket tells him that they need to find a way to get out of the ship. When Udonta asked of Star-Lord's whereabouts, Rocket noted that Quill was with Ego; before he insulted Udonta's teeth. Rocket then questioned Udonta for why he didn't give Quill to Ego, to which he responded that he was skinny and used him for thieving, leading into an escape plan. 

#### Escape from the Eclector

 ]]
 
When Groot walked past the two in the cell after getting beaten and drenched by the remaining Ravagers, Yondu Udonta called him over and instructed him to retrieve his Yaka Arrow Controller, instructing him to find in one of his drawers. Groot, happily excited to escape with his allies, went off to do was he thought Udonta wanted, much to Rocket's doubt.
 to find Yondu Udonta's fin]]
Groot went to retrieve Udonta's underwear and showed them to the pair. Udonta again told Groot to find his prototype fin but still misunderstood him by bringing in an Orloni. With Udonta asking Rocket to instruct Groot, he attempted to explain where to get the item but Groot brought Vorker's eye, making him laugh at the prospect of leaving out the eye. As they tell Groot where to find the fin, he begins to bring incorrect items, such as a desk and a thumb.
 's explanation]]
When Udonta gave him a Ravagers badge to help him locate the controller, Groot mistook it for Udonta wanting him to wear it as a hat, which Rocket translated to him that Groot was relieved to not where it as hat since he hates hats because he sometimes mistakes that they are part of someone's head, much to his surprise. With Udonta having bring them into focus, they told Groot where to find the prototype fin, only to be brought by Kraglin Obfonteri who felt sorry for Udonta and wanted help him for the murder of his friends.
 to Yondu Udonta]]
Once Obfonteri brought the controller to the two and went to go disconnect the third Quadrant, Rocket told Obfonteri to turn on some of Star-Lord's music to alert the other Ravagers. When Obfonteri turned the music on, the two Ravagers were suddenly curious and approached the cell where Rocket was attaching the Yaka Arrow Controller onto Udonta's head. Udonta killed the two Ravagers but as they proceeded to exit the cell, Rocket took the two Ravagers weapons, much to his satisfaction.
 with his allies]]
The three proceeded to get out of the cell through hall of the Eclector where Udonta eliminated all of the Ravagers with his Yaka Arrow before they could react to shooting at their prisoners. When the three make their way to the big station where the Ravagers were alerted, Udonta used his Yaka Arrow to kill the rest of them one by one, as they drop all the way to ground. Groot then attacked Retch and dropped him to the ground. Rocket then met Groot on his shoulder once he killed Retch with no remorse.
 ]]
They eventually made their way to the control room where Udonta noticed security camera footage of where to find incoming Ravagers and began to kill them one by one. Rocket then began to look up one of camera footage and noticed one of the Ravagers and shot him through the doorway. Having fun with killing the rest of the Ravagers, Rocket shot at the walls with Udonta, as they laugh together at this moment. While Rocket continued firing at the Ravagers, Udonta spotted Taserface and summoned his Yaka Arrow and ignite it at him.
 being damaged]]
Once Taserface spotted the Yaka Arrow and dodged it, causing it to hit the ship and blow up some of the surface, Rocket called Udonta a maniac believing that he had doomed their chances of escape, but Udonta told him that Obfonteri will release the Quadrant for their escape. Udonta then led them to the Quadrant which Obfonteri was detaching from the rest of the Eclector. The three then joined Obfonteri in the Quadrant and departed from the Eclector as it blew up.
 's planet]]
As they flew away, unaware of Taserface's short survival and informing the Sovereign of their location, Rocket told Obfonteri that he'll set the Quadrant to make the jump to Ego; however, Udonta told him that shouldn't have done that. Unaware that it required seven hundred jumps, Rocket was told by Udonta that he can't jump into another location for less than fifty jumps at a time, despite of Rocket knowing that. 

#### Confronted by Yondu

 
 
Despite of Yondu Udonta's warnings of going further many jump points for health reasons, the group began to suffer some disfigurements with each orifices of their bodies are starting come apart. Rocket and Groot started to scream loudly as they go to many jump points to reach over to Ego.
 to shut up]]
After recovering from their disfigurement, Udonta questioned what was Rocket doing, to which he told Udonta that Ego was bad news and needed to rescue Peter Quill. With Udonta questioning his motives for trying to save Quill, Rocket told him that it wasn't for love and only wanted to save Quill to tell that he is better than him, much to Udonta's laughter at Rocket's true feelings. After Udonta laughed at Rocket's face, he expressed that he knows who Rocket really is.
 ]]
Rocket then told Udonta that he doesn't know anything about him but Udonta went further into explaining that he knew why Rocket was so defensive toward his feelings. Udonta revealed that he knew who Rocket was knowing that a little bit of love would let him know how empty his heart is. As Rocket kept telling Udonta to shut up, he was told that he was similar to Udonta, resulting into him know their circumstances. Rocket was then informed that they were going to fight a planet, which made him hesitate from not understanding that planet was Ego. 

### Saving His Friends

#### Rescuing Peter Quill

 arrive on Ego]]
 
Now understanding that Ego is a planet and now has to fight against him to save his allies, Rocket walked over to a Construction Drilling Vessel with Yondu Udonta, getting ready to battle along with this task. Gamora then contacted Rocket where he was, telling her where he was located and keep themselves closely at bay.
 
Rocket, along with Udonta and Groot, took the Laser Drill and flew down to Ego where they crashed right into his own palace, crushing his human form and saving Peter Quill. Once Rocket's team had finally united inside the Laser Drill, he expressed his sarcastic gratitude when Drax the Destroyer told them they could have been nearly killed them all. Despite of Drax telling Rocket about having the situation under control, Mantis told the group that Ego will return.
 's systems]]
After learning that Nebula was accompanying them only to hitch a ride off-world, Rocket told everyone how she attempted to murder him, to which she insisted that she saved his life, calling him a fox. Groot, in an attempt to correct her, called Rocket a "raboon," before changing it to the raccoon. The Guardians of the Galaxy proceeded to fly straight towards Ego's core to destroy it before Ego's Expansion could destroy the universe as they know it.
 's surface]]
As they flew down to Ego's core, Rocket activated the ship's laser system to drill through the surface so they could make their way inside. Rocket then asked if they were saving the galaxy again, thinking they could raise their prices if they were two-time galaxy savers. Quill was annoyed by Rocket's greed, to which he defended was a random thought, claiming to care about the planets and buildings and animals on them; Quill pointed out he left out the people who live on them as well, much to Rocket's indifference. 

#### Battle on Ego's Planet

 ]]
 
When the Guardians arrived at the core of Ego's center, they began to drill into it until Yondu Udonta was contacted by Kraglin Obfonteri about Ayesha's arrival, only to be bombarded by a Sovereign fleet causing them to redirect their fire to the fleet. While the Construction Drilling Vessel was flying away from the Sovereign, Rocket noticed that the generator was damaged.
 flying to Ego's core]]
With the generator damaged by the Sovereign, Rocket retrieved a detonator to use for a bomb and tells the team that he can build it with the Anulax Batteries he stole to blow up the core. Once Rocket was done explaining how to plant the bomb and setting the timer for it, he flew out of the ship with Star-Lord and Groot as they move towards the core where they noticed that they couldn't get to the center as it was too small for them. They then realized that only Groot could fit through and plant the bomb, despite of Rocket's belief on being a terrible idea.
 how to activate the bomb]]
Being charge with Groot, Rocket explained to him how to activate the bomb and which button to push. When Rocket tells Groot to repeat what he said, he observed Groot's thinking of pushing the button that instantly blew the bomb up. Rocket then tells Groot what button to press and repeat back what he said, only to get it wrong again. Angry at Groot's learning capabilities, Rocket tells which button is supposed to press but Groot still got it wrong.
 ]]
When Quill came to check on them, Rocket asked him if anybody had any tape so that he could put it over the death button. After Quill asked the team from various locations on if they had any tape, Rocket was then told that nobody had any tape, leading into an argument with Quill about having to do everything making him, unaware of Groot taking the bomb and running off with it, much to his dismay.
 reunite together]]
Rocket then joined the rest of the Guardians as they all assembled together after destroying all of the Sovereign fleets. While Drax took Mantis back to the Quadrant after being knocked out, the rest of the Guardians stayed on the planet and fought off Ego's attacks while Groot planted the bomb.
 's attempted attacks]]
The Guardians were separated leaving Rocket, Star-Lord and Udonta to be confronted by Ego, attacking them with his energy tentacles. While the group began to fight against Ego's tentacles, Rocket used a few of his weapons to destroy all of Ego's tentacles including a bunch of mini explosives when he was surrounded and then using a bubble shield to protect himself. Once Rocket detonates Ego's arms, he then equipped himself with a blaster rifle with a satisfying smile, only to be swept up by one of Ego's incoming attacks.
 to hurry up on the bomb]]
Eventually, Ego apprehended all of the Guardians, including Rocket who was trapped under some rubble, before he began firing at the many energy tentacles. With Quill's urged to use his heart to access the powers within him to fight Ego, Rocket and the Guardians was released from Ego's grasp. While Quill fought Ego, Rocket went to retrieve Groot and tell him to get off of the planet before Groot successfully activated the bomb. 

#### Leaving Yondu Behind

 ]]
 
As they were about to depart Ego's Planet with just moments left to spare, Rocket noticed Yondu Udonta, who was still on the planet. Rocket flew towards him and told him that he has to get off the planet, but Udonta told them to get to the Quadrant, before Rocket told Udonta that they could not go without him. With someone needing to stay behind and rescue Peter Quill, Udonta told Rocket that he did not believe he had done anything good in his life.
 about his language]]
Udonta then told Rocket to let him stay, much to Rocket's emotional toll. Rocket gave Udonta an Aero-Rig and a Holographic Space Suit, which he only had one of each. As he was about to leave, Rocket attempted to say something to Udonta until Groot spoke. Rocket translated to Udonta about welcoming him to the team. Rocket and Groot flew off of the planet and onto the Quadrant before he tells Groot to discuss his language.
 's planet]]
Seeing Rocket return without Quill, Gamora asked where he was, but Rocket was unable to acknowledge being personally affected by Udonta's sacrifice. Gamora then prepared to rescue Quill but was stopped by Rocket who knocked her out with his Laser Cannon as he could not afford to lose another friend. Rocket then ordered Kraglin Obfonteri to leave the planet. Eventually, they found Quill and a deceased Udonta in space and helped them up on board. 

#### Yondu Udonta's Funeral

 at Yondu Udonta's funeral]]
 
After the Guardians retrieved Quill, they held a funeral for Yondu Udonta who sacrificed himself for him. Quill gave Udonta a eulogy comparing him to David Hasselhoff, saying his peace with Udonta and how he became his pretty cool father all along. As the funeral went silent, Rocket listened to Groot recalling his memory of being called a twig by Udonta, much to his agreement.
 funeral]]
When the funeral was over, Rocket sent out a message to the other Ravagers, telling them of Udonta's actions and then repaired his Yaka Arrow, which he found broken back on Ego. Rocket then witnessed the Ravagers arrived to give Udonta a funeral. As the Guardians watched the ships salute Udonta in traditional fashion, Rocket realized that Udonta did not chase them away or stole batteries, which Quill realized he was talking about himself. 

### Traveling in the Galaxy

In addition to the Quadrant, the Guardians of the Galaxy acquired a new ship with an auxiliary pod ship attached, which they dubbed the Benatar. They flew it to Grundar and later to Gangalor. 

#### Groot's Portrait

 ]]
 
Sometime later, Rocket woke up after hearing a small explosion within the Quadrant. He ran to where it went off, and believing Groot caused it, called out to him asking if he was okay or if he was dead. He found Groot in a room, that was currently on fire and wet. He then saw Drax's soap bar and stated he had been looking for it. He then asked Groot what he had done, in which Groot handed him a paper.
 's artistic drawing]]
Rocket put on his glasses and looked at it, thinking it was trash, and saw Groot had made an artistic drawing of the time when he saved the team during the Battle of Xandar. Rocket was touched and noted it should be framed and put on the refrigerator. As he questioned why a piece of his tail fur was on the drawing, a hole opened up below him, pulling him into space, but Groot used his vines to save him. Sometime that year, the team obtained the Benatar, which they used interchangeably with the Quadrant. Later on, Groot was drinking a scalding hot drink. In anger at the temperature, Groot slapped the drink away, causing it to hit Rocket, who angrily yelled back towards Groot. 

### Infinity War

#### Distress Call

 's reason to help]]
 
In May 2018, Rocket and the Guardians of the Galaxy, using the Benatar, traveled in space for the insurgency of a distress call sent out by the Asgardians. Rocket asked the team why they were answering the signal, in which Gamora told him that someone needs saving.
 for his attitude]]
Mantis then alerted the team that they were arriving and Peter Quill told them to be prepared and put on their mean faces. Groot loudly played on his handheld gaming console, causing a disturbance. After Groot swore at Quill for telling to put away his gaming device, Rocket started to yell at him for being rude and warned if he doesn't put away his console he'll smash into pieces.
 ]]
Upon their arrival, the team witnessed the wreckage of a ship that had been recently destroyed, leaving the Asgardians to die in space. As the team looked around in horror, Rocket commented on the likelihood of any survivors that'll get them paid for their rescue. When Thor suddenly smashed onto their front window of their ship, Rocket loudly complained and called for wipers before realizing that he was still alive.
 stand over Thor]]
Once the Guardians of the Galaxy took Thor on board the Benatar, the team tried to figure out how he was still alive, while Drax the Destroyer commented on his good looks. Upon having Drax and Rocket talk about Quill's weight increase, the team discovered through Mantis that Thor had feelings of anger and tremendous loss. Quill then ordered Mantis to wake Thor up, as he rushed out of the table and heavily took a deep breathe. Rocket and the Guardians quickly prepared for an attack, only for Thor to calmly asked who they are.
 's imitation of Thor]]
Having Thor settled down and eat soup, Gamora told him about Thanos' goal using the Infinity Stones. Thor then attempted to take one of the Benatar ' s Space Pod, only for Quill to tell him to not take their pod, much to Rocket's confusion on Quill's deep voice. As the team keeps commenting on Quill's deep voice as an imitation of Thor, Gamora broke off their attention for Thanos.
 with Thor]]
Thor then informed the Guardians about where the Reality Stone is and how Thanos had both the Power Stone and Space Stone, further telling them the other two were safe on Earth with the Avengers. As Thor tells them they should travel to Nidavellir, Rocket was in disbelief on how the place was real all along, very much liking to go. Thor told the team that Rocket was correct and smartest person, before calling him a rabbit. Rocket was confused by what Thor called him.
 ]]
When Thor informed the Guardians that Eitri the dwarf could create a powerful weapon he needs, Rocket was invited by Thor to go with him, complimenting him on being a noble leader. Rocket happily accepted Thor's offer and prepared to travel to Nidavellir. As Rocket took Quill's backpack, they were stopped by him and asked what kind of weapon Thor was talking, to which he explained that it was one capable of killing Thanos. After a dispute telling them to not have any destructive weaponry, Rocket was more thrilled to be on their quest.
 ]]
Once Rocket settled their dispute on splitting up into groups, he was told by Quill that he knows he is going to a place where Thanos isn't, much to his mockery of being a captain. Rocket told Groot to travel to Nidavellir with him while Groot was playing his game. As Rocket settle inside the Space Pod, Thor bids the other Guardians a farewell before they departed. 

#### Traveling to Nidavellir

 in the Space Pod]]
 
Making their way to Nidavellir inside the Benatar ' s Space Pod, Rocket tried to tell Groot where to go to the bathroom in the cup but was nervous to show where he would, leading to Thor tell Groot pour anything out of the cup then go in it again. To Rocket's disbelief, he asked Thor if he spoke Groot, listening to his joke about learning as an elective.
 about the mission]]
Thor told the group that Nidavellir was the birthplace of Mjølnir, and that he intended to make a weapon that is equally powerful. After a short conversation, Rocket turned to see Thor sitting sadly beside the window and started to talk to him about his family members, who are deceased. Rocket asked if Thor was prepared and listened to Thor having rage against Thanos, despite being beaten from his first encounter. Listening to Thor about killing his enemies more than his age number but none had succeeded and is only live by fate, Rocket asked if Thor would be wrong, getting response of loss hope.
 a new Prosthetic Eye]]
Feeling that he could give up something to help Thor on his quest, Rocket gave him a Prosthetic Eye, noting that he got it from a man back in Contraxia. With Thor questioning Rocket about the eye, he told Thor that he got a hundred credits from the bet and then snuck into the man's room to steal his eye. Being thanked by Thor, Rocket then looked at Thor putting the Prosthetic Eye in his socket, telling that he should've washed it first before getting a signal.
 and Groot arrive at Nidavellir]]
After getting a signal of the Space Pod, Rocket had observed Nidavellir as a dark metallic star, as he and the group headed over to the station where they settle inside its room. Now inside the room of Nidavellir, Rocket realized that the place was filled with a pile of junk and later discovered a prototype of an Infinity Gauntlet, leading Thor to tell the group to get back to the pod. However, despite the Dwarves being absent, Eitri remained alive and attacked both Rocket and Groot until Eitri was calmed down by Thor.
 meet Eitri]]
As Eitri settled down and explained that he was forced by Thanos to forge the Infinity Gauntlet to harness the power of the Infinity Stones, before being crippled and forced to watch his people executed, Rocket and the group found the Uru mold that could be used to make a King's weapon in which he explained that it could even summon the Bifrost. Together, Rocket, Thor and Eitri worked to repair and restart Nidavellir, in order to forge a powerful weapon called Stormbreaker.
 construct Stormbreaker]]
While inside the Space Pod, Rocket was told by Thor that he needed him to start the engines, much to his doubt. Thor then threw the pod with a string and told Rocket to start the engine, starting the mechanism of Nidavellir's iris. As the iris had finally brightened Nidavellir's mechanisms, Thor told Rocket that is what the star really looked like. Rocket was greatly amazed by it until it was shortly combusted and stopped working, Rocket then drove the pod near the iris and let him open up the gears, leading Eitri to forge the weapon.
 forge Stormbreaker]]
As Thor collapsed from the heat of the star, Rocket rushed to his side and proclaimed that Thor was dying. With Eitri knowing that the axe had no handle, he frantically searched for it so he could revive Thor back to health, calling for Groot to help. Groot saw the opportunity to help Thor and stepped up to use his own wooden arm as a handle to complete Stormbreaker. 

#### Battle of Wakanda

 , and Thor arrive on Earth]]
 
Rocket and Groot were then transported by Thor using Stormbreaker's Bifrost Bridge to Wakanda on Earth. They arrived in the middle of a battle between the Avengers, Wakandans, and the Outriders. Rocket instantly joined the fight.
 ]]
During the heat of the fight, Rocket encountered Winter Soldier while being surrounded by many Outriders. As he fired at many of his enemies while calling them "space dogs," Rocket was picked up by Winter Soldier from one of the attacking creatures and was spun in a circle, with both firing their weapons. Rocket perfectly aimed at the many incoming Outriders, shouting at them while firing each round of his blaster rifle.
 to sell his arm]]
After defeating the Outriders, Rocket was dropped onto the ground, leading to him asking Winter Soldier on the price of his firearm although Winter Soldier replied that it was not for sale. Becoming even more curious, Rocket then proceeded to ask about how much of Winter Soldier's prosthetic arm is worth. Winter Soldier threw Rocket a reproachful look and walked off, leaving Rocket muttering to himself that he would still get the arm. 

#### Thanos' Victory

 take effect]]
 
Shortly, Rocket witnessed, from afar, Thanos' arrival and his victory in achieving the Mind Stone from Vision. Suddenly, Thor arrived and unleashed a devastating attack with Stormbreaker. However, Thanos, despite being injured, used his now completed Infinity Gauntlet, to snap his fingers and teleported away. To Rocket's horror, he watched as Groot, who was calling out to him, disintegrated into dust. Unable to do anything else, Rocket gathered with Thor, Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, Bruce Banner and James Rhodes and sat down on a log in defeat. 

#### Failure

 comfort each other]]
 ." "Maybe I am.|Rocket and Tony Stark|Avengers: Endgame}}
Rocket joined the Avengers as they used their Quinjet to leave Wakanda and fly to the Avengers Compound in New York. He stayed there where he, along with the others, met Captain Marvel. Three weeks later, he witnessed Danvers' return with Tony Stark and Nebula. Rocket approached Nebula and held her hand in quiet mourning for the loss of their team.
 ]]
They all then gathered inside where they informed Stark of the Snap's effects on the world, displaying pictures of notable people that had fallen victim to it. When Stark asked what was wrong with Thor, who was sitting silently alone in another room, Rocket told him that he felt guilty about failing, which was shared by all of them. Rocket's presence shocked Stark as he thought that he was just a , although Rocket barely corrected him, not caring about others calling him other names. Rocket then witnessed Stark's outburst against Rogers due to prior tensions, before falling onto the floor. 

#### Ambush on Thanos

 
 
The next morning, Nebula revealed she knew where Thanos was, and Rocket showed them a planet that had just experienced the same power surge that Earth did when the Snap occurred. The group discussed what they should do, ultimately decided to go after Thanos.
 in the Benatar]]
They all then boarded the Benatar, with Rocket flying and Carol Danvers co-piloting, and departed Earth. As they went into space, Rocket asked who had never been to space, and saw Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, and James Rhodes raise their hands. Rocket then instructed them to not throw up on his ship before the Benatar, and they traveled to the Garden where Danvers left the ship to do recon. When she returned, she informed them that it was only Thanos down there. They then went down to the surface of the planet where Danvers, Bruce Banner, Rhodes, and Thor ambushed Thanos.
 are gone]]
Rocket, Rogers, and Romanoff walked inside momentarily. Rocket then went to collect the Infinity Gauntlet, which Thor had chopped off Thanos' arm. However, when he turned the gauntlet over, Rocket discovered the Infinity Stones were gone, much to his and everyone's collective shock. They all then interrogated Thanos, who revealed that he had destroyed the stones. Thor then aggressively sliced Thanos' head off and Rocket questioned what he had done, to which Thor replied by saying that he went for the head, as Thanos told him moments before the Snap. The group then returned to Earth, having lost once again. 

### Member of the Avengers

#### A New Team

 ]]
 
With the only family he ever knew gone, Rocket decided to stay with his newly found allies and became a member of the Avengers under Natasha Romanoff's leadership. Rocket would mostly operate with Nebula from the Benatar, reporting back in with the rest of the team from time to time.
 
In October 2023, Rocket was messaged by Carol Danvers about a highly-suspect warship, so he and Nebula went to check it out as they were closer. However, the ship turned out to be an infectious garbage scow, causing them to smell like garbage. They then had a meeting with Romanoff, Danvers, Okoye, and James Rhodes via holographic call, where Rocket reported about the recent mission, which he openly complained to Danvers about. When she said that she was not going to be seen for a while, Rocket teased if it was to get another haircut, but she corrected him about the workload she has to cover beyond Earth. 

#### Bringing in Thor

 at New Asgard]]
 
When the Avengers discovered a way to potentially resurrect the victims of the Snap, Rocket and Nebula were called in to return to Earth so the whole team was together. When they landed on the lawn of the Avengers Compound, Rocket asked Scott Lang where Bruce Banner was, as they were tasked with bringing in Thor.
 in his house]]
Banner then walked out, giving Lang tacos before joining Rocket in the shop. They then flew to Norway, where they were driven in the back of a pickup truck for the remainder of their journey. When they arrived, Rocket commented how New Asgard was not as nice as a golden palace. Banner implored Rocket to show some compassion since the Asgardians had lost their home and then half of their people. They then came across Valkyrie at the docks, and Rocket introduced himself before Valkyrie told them that Thor would not see them and comes out for "supplies." Rocket and Banner went to Thor's house, and when they entered, they discovered that Thor had gained a lot of weight, much to their surprise.
 try to recruit Thor]]
Excited to see them, Thor hugged them both, much to Rocket's discomfort. Rocket and Banner were then introduced to Korg and Miek, who invited them to use their free Wi-Fi and drink their beer. They then watched as they saw their friend yelling at someone through an online video game, which they felt embarrassed by. They then informed Thor of the chance they had to fix everything, but Thor declined, as he had fallen into a deep state of depression and did not believe he was worth any help to them. However, Rocket was able to convince him by revealing that there was beer on the Benatar. He then went with them, and they returned to the Avengers Compound. 

#### Locating the Infinity Stones

 ]]
 , how's it going?" "It's Rocket. Take it easy. You're only a genius on Earth, pal.|Tony Stark and Rocket|Avengers: Endgame}}
With all the Avengers at the Avengers Compound, they all began working the means of travel safely through the Quantum Realm. Rocket and Tony Stark worked on a bigger Quantum Tunnel inside the hangar. When Stark called him the wrong name, Rocket corrected him and then reminded him that he was only a genius on Earth. After they did a test run with Clint Barton, they were successful in achieving and harnessing time travel.
 's history]]
They then focused on locating the Infinity Stones throughout time, due to them appearing in the past for nearly all of the Avengers. They started with the Aether, which they had Thor explain its history. However, Thor soon started to get off track due to it bringing up past trauma he never got over, in which Stark had to calm him down. Later that day, they moved to the Power Stone, Rocket explained to them how Peter Quill stole it from Morag, and then Rocket started to tease Scott Lang due to him getting excited about space.
 prepare their mission]]
Next, Nebula informed them about the Soul Stone and Vormir, where Thanos murdered her sister to get the stone. After two days, the Avengers had finalized their brainstorm and planned when and where they would travel to, to get all six stones Stark, Steve Rogers, Bruce Banner and Lang going to 2012 to get the Space Stone, Mind Stone and Time Stone, Thor and Rocket to 2013 to get the Reality Stone, and Barton, Natasha Romanoff, Nebula and James Rhodes to 2014 to get the Power Stone and Soul Stone. 

### Time Heist

#### Theft of the Reality Stone

 ]]
 
They all then suited up in their new Time Suits, and made their way to the Quantum Tunnel. When Steve Rogers gave a motivational speech, Rocket commented on how good he was at that, in which Scott Lang agreed. Rocket then handed the shrunken Benatar, as it had been shrunken down by Pym Particles, to Clint Barton for him to travel to Vormir in, which he made him promise to return in good condition.
 arrive in Asgard in 2013]]
Rocket and Thor then traveled to an alternate 2013, to retrieve the Reality Stone from Asgard, which was infused in Jane Foster. Once they arrived, they followed Foster to her room, and Rocket layer out the plan for Thor to distract her as he extracted the stone from her body using a device they built for the mission. However, Thor started to get distracted, wanting to raid the wine cellar.
 ]]
They then spotted Frigga walk by, which reminded Thor that his mother died that day. This made Thor become incredibly stressed and start to have a panic attack. Rocket then slapped him to get him focused, reminding him that he has lost people, too, and unlike Frigga, they can get them back, so long as Thor sticks to the mission. They then went to Foster's room, but as Rocket turned around, he discovered Thor had disappeared, so he went in solo.
 from Jane Foster]]
Rocket then entered Foster's room, where she was asleep, so he snuck up behind her. When she woke up, Foster got up and Rocket followed her from behind, and then used the device to extract the Aether from her body. This caused his presence to be alerted to the Einherjar, who pursued him through the palace. Rocket rushed through the palace, looking for Thor and trying to lose the soldiers chasing him.
 
He soon came across Thor, who was with his mother. Rocket told him they had to go, so Thor hugged his mother goodbye. But, before they left, Thor reached out his hand, to Rocket's confusion, in which Mjølnir came to him, making him happy that he was still worthy, although Rocket was not that interested. They then traveled back to the present, having successfully completed their mission. 

#### Blip

 ]]
 
Once they all returned to their universe, they noticed Natasha Romanoff was not there, and learned she had sacrificed herself for the Soul Stone. After they mourned her, Rocket, Tony Stark, and Hulk started working on creating a Nano Gauntlet, capable of possessing the Infinity Stones. When they inserted the stones, Rocket made a loud noise to startle the other two, who were tense, much to his delight.
 ]]
When Rocket completed the gauntlet, he then asked who was going to be the one to wield it, which Thor immediately volunteered, but it was Hulk who told them all that he had to be the one to do it, due to the levels of gamma radiation. They all then suited up as they stood around Hulk, preparing for him to snap his fingers. Rocket stood behind Thor for protection against anything that could happen when he put the gauntlet on. Hulk then put on the gauntlet, and they watched as it hurt him, but he was able to snap his fingers. 

#### Ambushed by Thanos

 
 
As they checked on Hulk, the Avengers Compound was suddenly attacked by an air strike, destroying the foundations. Rocket, James Rhodes, and Hulk fell through the floor and became trapped under the rubble. Hulk was able to hold up the building, but Rocket found himself trapped and struggling to breathe. Rhodes then made his way to Rocket and tried to lift the rubble off of him.
 nearly drown]]
Rhodes was able to free Rocket, but they were not able to go anywhere. Suddenly, water rushed through, taking them under as it filled up the area. They tried to call out for help but the comms weren't working and couldn't get any responses. As the water rises up to their necks, Rhodes farewelled his ally, believing this to be their final moments, much to Rocket's fear. However, they were saved by Scott Lang, who got them away from the flooded area and to safety. 

#### Battle of Earth

 rejoin the battle]]
 
Ant-Man then grew to giant size and carried Rocket, War Machine, and Hulk out, joining in with the rest of the assembled heroes preparing to face off against an alternate Thanos and his army. Rocket jumped on War Machine's back and cocked his gun as Captain America led the lineup.
 ]]
They then charged at Thanos' forces, with Rocket riding on Rhodes as he flew towards the opposing army, protecting him from the fast-paced and chaotic battle. Rocket eventually joined the battle on the ground, picking off incoming enemies side by side again with Winter Soldier. Rocket later reunited with Groot, and the two fought together.
 ]]
When Thanos ordered an airstrike, Rocket attempted to shield Groot from the attack. However, the strike suddenly stopped, and when Rocket looked up, he discovered Captain Marvel arrive at the battlefield. She then destroyed the Sanctuary II, much to Rocket's enjoyment.
 ]]
Rocket eventually found himself facing off against an approaching Leviathan, which was about to eat him, until it suddenly turned to dust. This was because Iron Man obtained the Infinity Stones and used them to snap all of Thanos' forces out of existence. However, this action came at the cost of his life, due to the power of the stones. 

### Guardians Reassembled

#### Tony Stark's Funeral

 's funeral]]
Rocket, long with the rest of the reunited Guardians of the Galaxy, attended the funeral held for Tony Stark at Stark's house. Rocket stood alongside the team as they watched Stark being memorialized. Although only knowing Stark for not that long, Rocket was very upset by his passing, as hated losing more people close to him. 

#### Departing Earth

 to board the Benatar]]
 
Before the Guardians of the Galaxy departed from Earth, they decided to let Thor join them, as he was now without a path, much like all of them. They waited for Thor on New Asgard to say his goodbyes to Valkyrie, but Rocket hurried him up as he stood outside the Benatar.
 and Thor blasters]]
When Thor boarded the Benatar, he and Peter Quill had a small conflict over leadership, which the others joined in on. When Drax the Destroyer suggested they fight each other for the role of leader, Rocket revealed that he had blasters they could use, unless they wanted knives, much to Mantis' excitement. The conflict was brushed aside, but the position of leader was still left uncertain. Rocket's time on Earth acting as an Avenger resulted in the citizens learning of his existence, and he was featured at the New Jersey AvengerCon. 

#### Adventures with Thor

 ]]
Soon after returning to space, Rocket and the Guardians of the Galaxy were joined by Kraglin Obfonteri and welcomed him into the team. They then helped Thor in his weight loss training. They returned to many adventures throughout the galaxy, although Thor hardly contributed in his quest for self-discovery. In one adventure, they were in a swamp-like territory battling aquatic creatures. 

#### Battle of Indigarr

 ]]
 
In 2025, the Guardians received a distress call on Indigarr and agreed to go only because Thor said it was going to be like a relaxing holiday for them; they were also accompanied by Korg, Thor's friend. Upon arrival, they were forced into battle against Habooska the Horrible and his army who were trying to take over the planet. During the battle, Rocket got into a fight with Groot over his binoculars, angering him for filling them with his sap.
 ]]
Rocket was surprised when Thor finally joined in, and snapped at him for saying that the planet would be like a relaxing holiday. Rocket then listened as Thor gave a speech to King Yakan of the Indigarrians and then single-handedly defeated Habooska and his army, accidentally destroying the Sacred Temple in the process. 

#### Answering Distress Calls

 
 
At the Benatar, Rocket and the Guardians argued with Thor for bringing Toothgrinder and Toothgnasher, as they ate control of the distress calls, with Rocket mentioning that he was not going to check in the poop of the goats, getting scared because one of the goats hits him. The Guardians watched the calls for help in horror, discovering that several gods were being killed by Gorr the God Butcher, shocking Rocket.
 a final time before leaving]]
Before answering the calls, Rocket and the Guardians saw a distress call by Sif. Thor told them he needed to help her and walked out of the ship. As he spoke to Quill, Rocket and the Guardians waited nearby and watched. They then said goodbye to Thor and flew off. 

### Operating Knowhere

#### Buying Knowhere

Sometime later, the Guardians bought Knowhere from the Collector and decided to rebuild it so that it was liveable again after it had been destroyed by Thanos. They also acquired a new ship as their main source of transportation, and were joined by Cosmo, a superpowered dog who they previously encountered on Knowhere in 2014. 

#### Christmas Celebration

 ]]
 
Trying to fix Knowhere, Rocket had Cosmo use her telekinesis to move objects. Later, Mantis had Rocket dress up for a Christmas party. Peter Quill stepped out and was very happy to see the holiday. However, his mood changed when he saw that they kidnapped Kevin Bacon. Rocket remarked that it was a good gift because Quill had everything, but a human being.
 
Mantis then removed the mind control from Bacon, who was very scared. Rocket tried to calm Bacon down, saying they were not going to hurt him. When Bacon pointed Rocket out as a talking raccoon, Rocket got mad and tried to lunge at Bacon, threatening to kill him. When Bacon calmed down, he decided to join them and celebrate. During the celebration, Nebula dropped a present at Rocket's feet. Rocket opened it, amazed to see Winter Soldier's prosthetic arm. When the day was over, Rocket and the rest hugged Bacon before he left. Afterwards, Rocket and Cosmo decorated Groot like a Christmas tree. 

#### Peter Quill's Depression

 pass out drunk]]
 
In 2026, the Guardians of the Galaxy finished rebuilding Knowhere and turned it into a base of operations for the team. However, as time went on, Peter Quill fell into a depressed state, during which Rocket found himself using his Zune often. As Rocket walked around Knowhere listening to , he found Quill drunk in a bar. Quill berated Rocket and snatched his Zune back before passing out. 
 's depression]]
Nebula came in and carried Quill out, and the rest of the Guardians all walked with her. As he tested out his Gravity Boots, Rocket asked Nebula what was going to be done about Quill, but she deflected back at him, so he told her that he wasn't good at dealing with emotional problems. The rest of the Guardians joined in with discussing Quill, with Rocket suggesting that Mantis use her powers to make him happy, but she stated that it was wrong to manipulate the feelings of her friends. 

### Facing His Past

#### Attacked by Adam Warlock

 ]]
 
Rocket took back the Zune, and that night, he looked at the key card he had made to escape his cell back in Arête Laboratories. Then, Rocket takes his shirt off and prepares to go to bed. Suddenly, Rocket was tackled out of his room and into the streets by Adam Warlock.
 ]]
Rocket was able to escape from Adam, who was distracted fighting the other Guardians of the Galaxy, allowing Rocket to head to the armory. As he equipped himself with a gun, Mantis asked Rocket about the attacker, but he didn't know who it was. Adam found Rocket and blasted him in the chest. As the others fought Adam, Mantis rushed to Rocket's side, as he had been fatally shot. But, when Peter Quill tried to heal him with a Med-Pak, it electrocuted Rocket, so they rushed him to the med-bay on the Bowie, where they discovered he had a kill switch embedded inside his body. 

#### Seeing Old Friends

 ]]
 
While in a comatose state, Rocket remained in the Bowie while the Guardians of the Galaxy tried to save him. While on Counter-Earth, Rocket's body was taken by War Pig, but he was saved by the alternate Gamora.
 in the afterlife]]
Throughout all of this, Rocket had a vision where he was reunited with Lylla. Rocket became emotional and apologized for getting her, along with Teefs and Floor killed. Lylla put Rocket at ease, telling him that the sky was forever and beautiful, and that she had been flying with her friends. Rocket saw Teefs and Floor, and asked if he could join them. At this time, Rocket's body was flatlining. In the vision, Lylla stopped Rocket, telling him he still had a purpose. Rocket told her that they were made for nothing, but Lylla comforted him, telling him that the story was always his, and the two hugged. 

#### Revival

 and Groot]]
 
Rocket was resuscitated by Peter Quill, who performed CPR on him. The kill switch inside of Rocket was disabled and the Med-Pak healed his wound. Now that Rocket was no longer dying, Quill and Groot warmly hugged him.
 's voice]]
Rocket asked where Nebula was, seeing that she was trying to contact them, and they discovered that she, along with Drax the Destroyer and Mantis were onboard the High Evolutionary's ship. Rocket spoke, informing the others that he was alive, so Mantis told him that they all loved him. However, they were interrupted when the High Evolutionary incapacitated the three on his ship. Rocket was shaken upon hearing the voice of his creator. Rocket listened as the High Evolutionary demanded he be brought to him, or else he would kill Nebula, Drax and Mantis. 

#### Attack on Arête Laboratories

 ]]
 
To rescue their friends, Star-Lord devised a plan, although Rocket felt it would be a futile attempt due to how powerful the High Evolutionary was. Star-Lord responded that they would then die trying, and Gamora suggested just handing over Rocket, so Rocket sided with dying trying. Rocket, Star-Lord and Groot each split off in their own ship from the Bowie and headed to Arête Laboratories.
 
As they approached, Rocket's ship was swarmed by the Hell Spawn. They began to break through the glass and attack Rocket, but he was able to knock the Hell Spawn off his ship and get inside Arête Laboratories, along with Star-Lord, Gamora and Groot. They exited their ships, where they were reunited with Nebula, Drax and Mantis. Mantis informed them of the Star Children that were imprisoned onboard, so they debated leaving or helping. But Rocket, remembering his past, told the others he was done running and headed straight to rescue the children, and the rest of the Guardians followed him.
 's army]]
The Guardians entered a corridor filled with the High Evolutionary's guards and Hell Spawn. The Guardians fought the enemies until they corridor was cleared. Star-Lord made a plan to connect the hole in the ship with Knowhere to get the survivors to safety. Rocket split the Guardians, with him and Nebula piloting the ship while the others rescued the children. The two arrived at the bridge, only to find it destroyed, leaving Rocket unable to pilot the ship. Nebula told Rocket that she could, so he went to join the others in the evacuation, giving her his communication device. 

#### Face-Off with High Evolutionary

 ]] 
 
Once Rocket guided the last of the Star Children off ship, he noticed various cages. He approached the cages, noticing one filled with creatures that were the same as him. Using his key card, Rocket opened the cage and saw on the info card that their common name was "raccoon," making him realize that he truly was a raccoon. Determined to not let another creature suffer, he grabbed the kits out of the cage, but saw all the rest of the caged creatures.
 ]]
The High Evolutionary appeared, Rocket dropped the kits and reached for his gun, but he was not fast enough, and High Evolutionary launched him into the ceiling. Rocket was then thrown around the room, unable to fight back as High Evolutionary berated him as an abomination, calling him 89P13. Rocket managed to activate his Gravity Boots, dropping him to the floor and equip his gun. Rocket declared that his name was "Rocket Raccoon," finally accepting what he was, and fired a blast directly at High Evolutionary.
 's life]]
High Evolutionary got up and charged at Rocket, but was stopped when the Guardians of the Galaxy arrived and attacked him. The High Evolutionary was finally defeated when Gamora stabbed him and peeled his mask, before he fell to the floor. Rocket looked at his tormentor's true face that he had disfigured, as he claimed how he only wanted to make things perfect. Rocket objected, saying that he just hated how things were. Drax told Rocket to kill High Evolutionary, but instead spared him, explaining that he was a Guardian.
 hug Peter Quill]]
With time running out before the ship exploded, the Guardians went to leave, but Rocket stopped them, saying that had to save all of the animals. The Guardians then unlocked all the cages and escorted all of the different creatures towards Knowhere, as well as High Evolutionary. However, while the Guardians managed to get across safely, Star-Lord fell behind because he dropped his Zune. The Guardians watched in horror as Star-Lord failed to make it across, and was stranded in space to die, but he was saved by Adam Warlock. Relieved their friend was safe, they all hugged Star-Lord. 

### Leading the Guardians

#### Guardians Disassembled

 ]]
 
With the threat over, Rocket personally locked the High Evolutionary in a cell on Knowhere. The Guardians of the Galaxy were all summoned, and they listened to Peter Quill reveal that he was leaving the Guardians and returning to Earth. Rocket proceeded to hear all the other Guardians announced their departures, which saddened him, thinking the team was over. But, Quill told Rocket that the Guardians were still needed and that Rocket would be the new leader. They all then saluted Rocket as the new Captain.
 ]]
Afterwards, Rocket went outside and sat alone holding Quill's Zune, which Quill left a note on saying that he went back to get it for Rocket, knowing how much he enjoyed using it. Through the speakers, Rocket played to comfort him and watched as Groot began to dance to the music. Rocket got up and danced with his friend, and soon everyone on Knowhere was dancing along with them. As they danced, Cosmo let out a howl, and all the remaining Guardians howled as well, finally feeling no longer burdened by their past. 

#### Mission on Krylor

 ]]
 
Under Rocket's leadership, the new Guardians of the Galaxy, which consisted of Groot, Kraglin Obfonteri, Cosmo, Adam Warlock, Blurp and Phyla continued to protect the galaxy and help those in need. Sometime later, the Guardians were helping a remote village on Krylor that was being terrorized by hostile creatures. As they waited, the Guardians discussed their favorite musical act, with Rocket playing 's " ". Once the creatures arrived, under Rocket's order, the Guardians charged into battle. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
*Halfworlder Physiology: Rocket is a bionically augmented raccoon evolved into a Halfworlder due to OrgoCorp's experimentations. His enhancements include a cybernetic skeletal structure, enhanced phalange, and metacarpal bones, and a genetically augmented cerebral cortex.
**Enhanced Strength: Due to his augmentations, Rocket is able to use weapons that are designed to be wielded by normal sized humanoids with ease. He was also able to swiftly tackle Gamora to the ground when she attempted to assassinate Star-Lord to get the Orb and easily stun many human-sized Ravagers using his strength. More notable, his teeth can bite through metal. 
**Enhanced Durability: Due to his cybernetic implants, such as a cybernetic skeletal structure, Rocket is capable of surviving damage that would normally be sufficient to kill an animal of his size, as well as injure a normal sized human. He has been attacked with enough force to knock him back several meters and only suffered minimal injury, as well as withstood being thrown by Gamora, being blasted by the Universal Weapon and surviving Ego's attacks. Even more impressively, he survived being pinned under an enormous amount of debris when Thanos attacked the Avengers' headquarters, albeit he had trouble breathing. During the Attack on Rocket, Rocket was able to survive being smashed through buildings by Adam Warlock, though he was nearly killed by his energy blast.
**Enhanced Speed: Due to his cybernetic implants alongside his normal anatomy, Rocket is capable of running faster than an animal of his size, as well as a normal human. Rocket was able to run across distances by running on all fours from small rooms in the Kyln, many trees on Berhert, and on Groot's limbs.
**Enhanced Agility: Rocket's entire skeletal structure is cybernetic, allowing him to move more like a human and still be as agile as a raccoon. He narrowly avoided rapid gunfire during the Escape from the Kyln and escaped the Einherjar after extracting the Aether from Jane Foster.
**Enhanced Stamina: Because of Rocket's cybernetics, he is able to produce less fatigue toxins compared to normal animals and humans, with him lasting much longer in fights.
**Enhanced Reflexes: Rocket is able to quickly respond to high-intensity situations, such as piloting the Milano through a Quantum Asteroid Field.
**Enhanced Senses: Rocket can see, smell, and hear better than any raccoon possible. This potentially helps him detect approaching enemies, as he was able to hear Yondu Ravager Clan footsteps so that he could put on traps for them, as well as using his sense of smell to detect Brahl and another Ravager approaching him while hiding.
**Enhanced Intelligence: Rocket's cerebral cortex was genetically enhanced meaning that unlike other members of his species he has a cognitive and intellectual equivalent or superior ability to the most sensitive species in the galaxy. He can talk and communicate with other species, as well as perform extremely complex tasks. Even though he has only known him for a short time, Thor claimed that Rocket is the most intelligent member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. Rocket has an affinity for using and forging galactic artillery, piloting spacecrafts, and quickly devising strategies. He also possesses a level of emotional intelligence, as he was able to get through to a traumatized Thor and convinced him to return to help with the Time Heist. Rocket told Tony Stark that he is "only a genius on Earth," pointing out that he is a galactic genius by comparison.

### Abilities

 
 
*Genius-Level Intellect: Due to the modifications done by High Evolutionary, Rocket possesses genius intellect that rivals renowned scientists such as Tony Stark and Bruce Banner. Rocket's genius intellect was present even as a child. He could figure out the solution to creating advanced lifeforms without inducing rage when observing the faulty filtration systems delivering the chemicals to induce the artificial evolution, something even the High Evolutionary could not deduce. Rocket could also generate a key card to unlock the pens he and his friends were trapped in by utilizing a combination of spare parts he had smuggled in. The High Evolutionary himself noted Rocket to be the only test subject with the ability to invent and create new ideas instead of memorizing what had already been taught to him. It was for this reason the High Evolutionary became obsessed with obtaining Rocket's brain to replicate his genius intellect and creative mind.
 
*Master Tactician: Rocket is a brilliant strategist. He is able to formulate strategies of advanced combat and escape, even with minimal resources, and to change them according to the needs of the situation. Rocket already said he fled from twenty two prisons. In the Kyln, Rocket quickly devised a plan to escape using only a power source and security band. On Berhert, he quickly laid out a series of traps for the Ravagers.
*Master Engineer: ]] Rocket is highly skilled in handling, modification, and construction of equipment and high-tech weaponry. Rocket was able to modify a power source and security band to break into the control tower of the Kyln, disable the security system, unlock doors, and hijack the security Hoverbots. Using scrap from the Milano, Rocket built several high-powered weapons, including the Hadron Enforcer. Rocket was also given the task of fixing the ship when they crash landed on Berhert. Rocket's engineering skills are comparable to the likes of Tony Stark and Bruce Banner when he helped them in forging a new Infinity Gauntlet, the Nano Gauntlet.
 
*Master Scientist: Rocket was able to solve a mutation problem that even the High Evolutionary could not figure it out.
*Expert Combatant: Although Rocket may not look like it due to his small size, Rocket has been known to pack a punch. Able to shoot many security hoverbots at the Kyln and help take down the Abilisk using weapons he built, he can also fight with his bare paws. He was also able to easily stun two human-sized Ravagers while jumping onto them and attacking them and was able to knock out one of them by punching him repeatedly in the head.
 
*Master Marksman: through a door]] Rocket has a great skill in handling various weapons throughout the Galaxy, with the preference of high-powered artillery. Rocket also has excellent precision, enough to shoot Quill with a non-lethal electrical round with his cannon while the latter was running away. During the flight of Kyln, Rocket destroyed many Hoverbots with a weapon of a Nova Corps soldier. During the escape from the Sovereign's fire, Rocket destroyed many of the Sovereign's drones with the ship's turret. Rocket even shot a Ravager through a door from observing the surveillance screens of the Eclector.
 
*Master Pilot: during a battle]] Rocket is an excellent pilot of various starships. Even as a child, he was capable of piloting one of the High Evolutionary's ships and escaping despite never having operated a spacecraft before. On Knowhere, he took down several Necropods using only the high durability of his industrial pod. During the Battle of Xandar, Rocket was responsible for leading the attack of the Ravagers and Nova Corps, in the Dark Aster, destroying many Necropods in the process. Rocket also proved capable of piloting improvised vehicles, like the Kyln's security tower. Rocket is even said to be a greater pilot than Peter Quill.
*Expert Thief: Rocket's small figure allows him to swiftly steal objects that could be useful to him. This helps Rocket create various weaponry as well as building other items. While meeting with High Evolutionary, 89P13 was able to swiftly grab many pieces of metal scraps which helped him create a key card.
*Bilingualism: Rocket is fluent in English, and has the ability to understand what Groot is saying, though others; including Star-Lord's Translator Implant only hear "I am Groot". This is due to Rocket's connection with Groot. James Gunn on Twitter 

## Equipment

### Weapons

 
*Ion Cannon: Rocket's favorite weapon, until he was forced to sell it in the Hub in order to obtain some fast cash.
*Gas Grenade: A small device that emits a sleeping gas.
*Laser Cannon: ]] Rocket's new weapon, described as "the juiciest killware seen in ages," and obtained in a confiscated weapons case in a customs station in the Hub. He shot at Peter Quill with it to prevent him from escaping in Xandar right before being apprehended by the Nova Corps, and threatened Drax with it in Knowhere. He incapacitated Gamora right before escaping from the destruction of Ego, to prevent her from sacrificing herself in an attempt to rescue Quill from there.
*Nova Machine Gun: Rocket used this gun after Drax tossed it to him in order to destroy the Kyln Hoverbots during their breakout.
 
*Hadron Enforcer: One of Rocket's own inventions, it is a large combustion cannon used for demolition purposes and stated to be able to destroy moons, and used by Rocket to destroy Ronan the Accuser's hammer.
*Power Stone: During their final battle with Ronan the Accuser, Rocket and the other Guardians of the Galaxy used the Power Stone in tandem to direct the Stone's energy at Ronan, destroying his body and killing him.
*Gatling Blaster: Rocket chose a heavy weapon to fight the Abilisk, firing against it while flying around the beast. Once Star-Lord realized the beast had a wound on the neck, both started to shoot him from above to give a chance to Gamora to kill it by attacking the wound.
*Katie and Vicki: ]] Rocket confiscated two blasters from the Eclector. He shot a Ravager through a door with Vicki, using a camera to aim, and continued to fire off shots with both Katie and Vicki.
*Mini Bombs and Bubble Shield: As he was surrounded by Ego's energy tentacles, Rocket launched a small amount of Mini Bombs to the tentacles, and then activated the Bubble Shield, detonating the explosives and destroying the wave of constructs.
*Collapsible Blaster Rifle: Rocket armed himself with this weapon in order to hold Ego off and buy some time for Groot to detonate a bomb in its core. His gun successfully destroyed many of Ego's energy tentacles until he was overwhelmed by them.
*Twin Barrel Blaster: Rocket engaged the Outriders as soon as he arrived on Wakanda, shooting at many of them. When surrounder, he was picked up by the Winter Soldier and spun into a circle, firing his weapon at the same time as the Winter Soldier shot with his own, killing the wave of Outriders.
*Dual Blasters: ]] Rocket carried his dual blasters in two holsters in his legs. He prepared one of them while riding War Machine to join the forces of the Avengers against Thanos and his army, but soon he went to the ground and duel-wielded his two guns. He fought alongside the Winter Soldier again, killing one of the Chitauri waves, and shot one last time to a fast approaching Leviathan, only for it to disintegrate before being hit.
*Laser Blaster: Rocket resorted to use a laser blaster in order to fend off the Booskans that were attacking Indigarr. As he and the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy took cover from the attack, Rocket fired his weapon towards his targets until Thor's intervention put an end to the battle.

### Other Equipment

*Key Card: Rocket made a makeshift Key Card to help him and Batch 89 escape from their cages in Arête Laboratories.
*Translator Implant: Rocket has a translator implant that helps him understand many of the languages spoken in the universe. James Gunn on Twitter - March 25, 2023 
*Aero-Rigs: Another invention of Rocket is jet-pack devices that are materialized onto the user and allow them to seamlessly fly through the air and potentially even reach space.
*Anulax Batteries: Anulax Batteries are powerful energy sources that serve as the main provenance for the Sovereign and its people. Rocket stole several of these in his battle with an Abilisk. During the Battle on Ego's Planet, Rocket used the batteries to create a bomb to kill Ego.
*Nanobot Welder: A highly-technological device that can create or repair space vessels using nanotechnology.
*Gravity Field Mines: Rocket utilized specialized button-controlled mines to repeatedly launch multiple Ravagers into the air before dropping them back down to the ground again during the Attack on Berhert.
 
*Time Suit: This suit was designed in order to time travel through the Quantum Realm safely. It is a white, red and black suit that materialize around the wearer's regular clothes, managing to be summoned when time travel is required again, and disappear when no longer in use. It has size-shifting adaptability down to subatomic levels and a wrist gadget that allows for displacement through time and space.
*Aether Extractor: A device capable to extract the Aether from its hosts.
 
*Winter Soldier's Prosthetic Arm: During Christmas 2025, Nebula gifted Barnes's prosthetic arm to Rocket, following Rocket expressing interest in obtaining it during the Battle of Wakanda years prior.
*Gravity Boots: Rocket invented a pair of anti-gravity boots that allows him to move independent of gravitational forces. He utilized these boots against the High Evolutionary during the Attack on Arête Laboratories, neutralizing his gravitational powers and allowing Rocket to fire a shot at him.
*Med-Pak: Star-Lord and Mantis used a med-pak on Rocket to heal his wound after Adam Warlock's attack.

### Vehicles

 
*Milano: When Rocket joined forces with Peter Quill to escape from the Kyln, Quill directed him to his ship and told him to fly it outside the prison. Then, when the Guardians of the Galaxy were formed, Rocket would co-pilot the ship with Quill, although they would often fight for control. This would eventually lead Rocket to crashing the Milano on Berhert.
 
*Mining Pod: When the Guardians of the Galaxy were attacked by Ronan the Accuser on Knowhere, Rocket, along with Peter Quill and Gamora piloted Mining Pods to escape from them. They then started using them offensively to destroy some Necrocraft ships.
*Eclector: The Guardians of the Galaxy were brought onboard Yondu's Ravager Clan's ship, where they created a plan to fight Ronan the Accuser and his forces. When Rocket and Groot were captured by Yondu's Ravager Clan, they were taken to their ship and locked up to be given to the Kree. However, Rocket teamed up with Yondu Udonta and escaped from, as well as destroying, the ship.
**Quadrant: Rocket flew this ship after escaping from the Eclector to rescue his team on Ego. However, he made the ship do seven hundred jumps. The Guardians used this ship as their new ship temporarily afterwards.
*Warbird: During the Battle of Xandar, Rocket used this ship to fight Ronan the Accuser and his forces. The ship got destroyed when Rocket flew the ship into the Dark Aster.
*Construction Drilling Vessel: To rescue the Guardians of the Galaxy on Ego, Rocket and Yondu used this ship to cut through Ego's surface to his core. There, Rocket used the laser drill to destroy Ego's core, but the ship was damaged and then destroyed.
 
*Benatar: Upon crashing the Milano, the Guardians of the Galaxy acquired a new ship, as their new base of operations and home. Rocket and Peter Quill were piloting the ship when they came across Thor. Rocket was reunited with the ship when Captain Marvel carried it to Earth, and she and Rocket piloted the ship to ambush Thanos. Rocket would continue to use the ship with Nebula when serving as a member of the Avengers. Rocket was eventually reunited with his team and returned to how things used to be, now with Thor joining the team.
**Benatar's Space Pod: Rocket used the Benatar ' s Space Pod, while bringing Thor and Groot, to travel all the way to Nidavellir to make a weapon that would kill Thanos. While there, Rocket used the space pod to help Thor create Stormbreaker outside of Nidavellir.
*Bowie: Upon buying Knowhere from the Collector, the Guardians of the Galaxy also sold the Benatar in exchange for the bigger Bowie. Following his fight with Adam Warlock, Rocket was held in the Bowie's Medical Bay as the Guardians raced to find information to deactivate Rocket's kill switch to fix him. Eventually, after being healed, Rocket used one of the Bowie's pods to invade Arete Laboratories to save the other Guardians from the High Evolutionary.

## Facilities
 
*Arête Laboratories: To be added.
 
*Avengers Compound: As a member of the Avengers, Rocket occasionally met with them at their facility.
*Apartment: Rocket lived in his own apartment on Knowhere, and it was the location Adam Warlock first attacked him in.

### Prisons

 
*Kyln: Rocket and Groot were captured by the Nova Corps and sent to the Kyln. With the help of Peter Quill, Drax, and Gamora, they all broke out.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Mother †

### Allies

*Raccoons - Brethren
*Batch 89 - Former Teammates and Friends
**Lylla † - Love Interest
**Teefs †
**Floor †
*Tibius Lark †
*D'Xtar
*Guardians of the Galaxy - Teammates and Close Friends
**Groot † - Partner, Best Friend and Savior
**Groot - Partner, Best Friend, Surrogate Son and Savior
**Gamora † - Former Enemy
**Yondu Udonta † - Temporary Enemy
**Kraglin Obfonteri
**Cosmo
**Adam Warlock - Former Enemy and Killer
**Phyla
**Blurp
*Peter Quill/Star-Lord - Former Enemy, Former Teammate, Predecessor, Best Friend and Savior
*Drax the Destroyer - Former Teammate and Close Friend
*Nebula - Former Enemy, Former Teammate and Close Friend
*Mantis - Former Teammate and Close Friend
*Tivan Group
**Taneleer Tivan/Collector
**Carina †
*Ravagers
**Yondu Ravager Clan - Temporary Enemies
***Horuz †
***Tullk †
***Oblo †
**Stakar Ravager Clan
***Stakar Ogord
**Martinex
**Mainframe
**Krugarr
**Gamora - Friend and Former Teammate
*Nova Corps - Former Enemies
**Irani Rael
**Rhomann Dey
**Garthan Saal †
*Asgardians
**Thor - Former Teammate and Friend
**Brunnhilde/Valkyrie
**Einherjar
*Eitri
*Avengers - Former Teammates and Friends
**Steve Rogers/Captain America - Former Leader
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow † - Former Leader
**Bruce Banner/Hulk
**James Rhodes/War Machine - Savior
**Sam Wilson/Falcon
**Wanda Maximoff †
**Vision †
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel
**Tony Stark/Iron Man †
**Scott Lang/Ant-Man - Savior
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye
**Peter Parker/Spider-Man
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier
*Golden Tribe
**T'Challa/Black Panther †
**Shuri
*Dora Milaje
**Okoye
**Nomble
**Yama
*Jabari Tribe
**M'Baku
*Border Tribe
*Wakandan Royal Guard
*Pepper Potts/Rescue
*Korg
*Miek
*Frigga
*Masters of the Mystic Arts
**Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange
**Wong
*Warsong
*Howard the Duck
*Hope van Dyne/Wasp
*Indigarrians
**Yakan
**Glenda
*Toothgrinder
*Toothgnasher
*Bzermikitokolok and the Knowheremen
**Bzermikitokolok
**Kortolbookalia
**Sliyavastojoo
**Phloko
*Hoobtoe
*Xlomo Smeth
*Orloni Peddler
*Steemie Blueliver
*Kevin Bacon - Temporary Enemy and Friend
*Star Children
**Latti
**2KK9090
*Abilisks
*Eagly
 

### Enemies

*OrgoCorp
**High Evolutionary - Former Experimenter, Temporary Ally, Attempted Victim, Attempted Killer and Prisoner
**Vim †
**Theel †
*Sqqd'li - Former Employer
*Zade Scraggot
*Baldo
*Head Riot Guard †
*Angry Guard †
*Monstrous Inmate †
*Ronan the Accuser † - Attempted Killer and Victim
*Korath †
*Sakaarans
**Maskless Sakaaran †
*Exolon Monks
*Sovereign
**Ayesha † - Former Employer and Attempted Killer
**Sovereign Admiral
**Sovereign Chambermaid
**Zylak - Attempted Killer
*Taserface †
*Vorker †
*Retch †
*Halfnut †
*Scrote †
*Gef †
*Narblik †
*Brahl †
*Shran †
*Ego † - Attempted Killer and Indirect Victim
*Outriders
*Black Order
**Cull Obsidian †
**Proxima Midnight †
*Thanos †
*Jane Foster
*Einherjar
*Nebula †
*Thanos †
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw †
**Cull Obsidian †
**Proxima Midnight †
**Corvus Glaive †
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
**Chitauri Gorillas
*Outriders
*Sakaarans
*Booskans
**Habooska the Horrible †
*Hell Spawn
**War Pig †
**Behemoth †
**Octo-hyena †
*Controller †
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for Rocket Raccoon
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* (alternate universe) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (mentioned; alternate universe) 
* 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
* 
** 
* 
* (voice) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** 
* 
* (photo) 
* (statue & mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
** 
* 
** 
* 
* (voice) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** 
* 
* (photo) 
* (statue & mentioned) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Rocket Raccoon is a native of Halfworld resembling Earth raccoons who was genetically and cybernetically enhanced by robots after serving as a therapy animal.
*Rocket Raccoon is the fourth character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to break the , after Groot, Pizza Poppa, and She-Hulk.
*Rocket is 144 microbules tall and weighs 168 grets. Rocket's biometrics 
*In Avengers: Endgame, Rocket wears a uniform that looks like his classic uniform from the comics.
*Rocket claims that his lifespan is the normal lifespan for a raccoon, i.e. at most 20 earthly years. However, this is inevitably incorrect, as even though he was abducted as a newborn, he has spent a number of years in captivity, was a notorious criminal for several more years, and has been one of the Guardians of the Galaxy for well over a decade now, making him at least approximately 20 earthly years old. Thus, his lifespan was likely enhanced as well by the experiment that "made" him.
*Rocket is a fan of Glen Campbell, Radiohead, Heart, The The, and Redbone. 
*In a deleted concept, a variant of Rocket was supposed to make an appearance in the first episode of Loki.
* Rocket is 2'9" (0.84m) in height. Alonso, Victoria; Carr, Damien; Townsend, Christopher; Williams, Guy; Fawkner, Jonathan; Rahhali, Nordin (July 30, 2017). "The making of Marvel Studio's "Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2"". ACM SIGGRAPH 2017 Production Sessions. SIGGRAPH '17. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery: 12. doi:10.1145/3078345.3099604 

## Behind the Scenes

*Before Bradley Cooper was cast as Rocket Raccoon, , David Tennant, , , and were considered for the role.
*Rocket Raccoon was not included in early drafts of the Guardians of the Galaxy script out of fear that he would be considered too cartoonish. Guardians of the Galaxy Writer Reveals Hit Marvel Film Nearly Didn't Star Rocket Raccoon 
*Bradley Cooper took inspiration from actor in his portrayal of Rocket. Bradley Cooper Explains His Voice in 'Guardians of the Galaxy' 
*In Avengers World Vol 1 #9, Guardians of the Galaxy is a film being watched by Cannonball and Sunspot on a computer screen. It shows the scene where Rocket and Groot at the Kyln fighting during the Escape from the Kyln.

### Continuity

Although Rocket was called "Rocket Raccoon" in the front page of Guardians of the Galaxy: Galaxy's Most Wanted, this name was never used in either of the movies where the character appeared until the release of Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3. In retrospect, Director James Gunn said that the Guardians of the Galaxy films were "essentially the origin of how [the] character came to be known as ' Rocket Raccoon ' ", GotG 3: James Gunn Dishes on Rocket Raccoon Conversation with Kevin Feige thus retconning every mention of the name in the MCU previous to the events of Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3.

## References

 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 
 
 
de:Rocket Raccoon
es:Rocket Raccoon
fr:Rocket Raccoon
pl:Rocket Raccoon
pt-br:Rocket Raccoon
ru:Енот Ракета

Category:Characters
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy (film) Characters
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 Characters
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Thor: Love and Thunder Characters
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 Characters
Category:I Am Groot Characters
Category:The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Raccoons
Category:Halfworlders
Category:Cyborgs
Category:Males
Category:Brown Hair
Category:White Hair
Category:Brown Eyes
Category:Mercenaries
Category:Criminals
Category:Time-Travelers
Category:Batch 89 Members
Category:Kyln Inmates
Category:Guardians of the Galaxy Members
Category:Avengers Members
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Enhanced Individuals
Category:Infinity Stones Users
Category:Pym Particles Users
Category:High Body Count
Category:Revived Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Adam Warlock