Lang 
|alias = Giant-Man 
|derivatives = Scotty 
|nicknames = Chang Tiny 
|organizational = SFPD 56210 Prisoner 121758584 
|media = The Little Guy World's Greatest Grandma 
|undercover = Jack }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = 
|gender = Male
|snapped = No 
|title = Baskin-Robbins' Employee of the Century
|IDno = 56210 121758584
|affiliation = (formerly) (formerly) (formerly) 
|movie = Ant-Man and the Wasp Avengers: Endgame Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania Avengers: Doomsday (unreleased) Avengers: Doomsday | Now in Production }}
|tv series = }}
|tv movie = }}
|web series = WHiH Newsfront (2 episodes) 
|docuseries = Legends *The Avengers Initiative *Ant-Man
|comic = }}
|book = Avengers: Infinity War: The Heroes' Journey The Wakanda Files: A Technological Exploration of the Avengers and Beyond Look Out for the Little Guy!
|actor = Paul Rudd Jackson Dunn (12 years old) Lee Moore (93 years old) Bazlo LeClair (baby) Loen LeClair (baby) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Scott Lang is a former convicted thief who struggled to pay child support to his estranged wife with whom he had a daughter, Cassie Lang. With the promise of money, he was convinced by Hank Pym to take on the mantle of Ant-Man, a superhero with an advanced suit designed to shrink its wearer to a tiny size while increasing one's toughness, agility, and physical strength. Trained under Pym and his daughter Hope van Dyne, Ant-Man was to help foil Pym's former protege Darren Cross, who was intending to sell his Yellowjacket Suit design and his copy of the Pym Particles formula to Hydra and the Ten Rings. However, their plan was discovered by Cross, culminating in a final fight between Yellowjacket and Ant-Man. To defeat him, Ant-Man shrunk small enough to enter Yellowjacket's suit and destroy it, sending Ant-Man to the Quantum Realm, but he was able to escape. Ant-Man's heroism helped restore his relationship with Cassie and his ex-wife, as well as find a new romantic one with van Dyne. Lang soon learned that the Avengers were seeking for his help.

Against Pym and van Dyne's wishes, Ant-Man joined Captain America's side during the Avengers Civil War, having been recommended by the Falcon following their previous encounter. Ant-Man fought against Iron Man and his allies, allowing Captain America and Winter Soldier to escape. Ant-Man and several of his new allies were then arrested and imprisoned in the Raft by Thaddeus Ross. When Captain America arrived to free them, Ant-Man escaped, but later made a deal with the FBI to be put under house arrest so that he could still spend time with his family.

Three days before Lang could finish his sentence, he had a strange vision of Janet van Dyne, who had remained trapped inside the Quantum Realm, and with whom Lang became psychically entangled with while he was there. This resulted in Lang being kidnapped by Pym and Hope van Dyne, who had built a Quantum Tunnel machine and intended to use it and Ant-Man to rescue Janet. These plans went awry when Ant-Man and Wasp were confronted by both Ghost and Sonny Burch, who wanted to steal the Quantum Tunnel machine for their own reasons. Ant-Man, Wasp, and Pym eventually succeeded in rescuing Janet from the Quantum Realm. Ant-Man was then able to return home just in time to finish his house arrest, narrowly avoiding an extended prison sentence for violating the terms.

However, during a trip to the Quantum Realm to gather quantum particles for Ghost, Ant-Man became trapped as Pym's entire family was turned to dust by Thanos. Ant-Man was unable to escape until 2023, where he regrouped with the Avengers and, realizing that time flowed differently in the Quantum Realm since he only experienced five hours while trapped, suggested that they use the Quantum Realm as a means of time travel to the past. Ant-Man then officially joined the Avengers and participated in the Time Heist, where they successfully managed to acquire the six Infinity Stones from alternate pasts and used the Stones to resurrect the victims of Thanos' Snap. However, an alternate Thanos had managed to follow the Avengers through time, and Ant-Man fought in the resulting Battle of Earth. Thanos and his army were eventually destroyed, after which Lang celebrated the victory with van Dyne and Cassie, and attended Tony Stark's funeral.

Now famous to the public, Lang returned to the Quantum Realm when he and the rest of his family were accidentally pulled through a portal created by Cassie. Separated from the rest of the group, Lang and Cassie encountered the Freedom Fighters, and accidentally led M.O.D.O.K., who revealed himself to be Cross, to their location. M.O.D.O.K captured the pair and brought them back to Axia to face Kang the Conqueror. Kang threatened to kill Cassie if Lang did not retrieve the Multiversal Engine Core, so Lang was forced to comply. However, Kang was ultimately killed once the group inspired a full-on revolution by the people living under Kang's tyranny, but not without massive casualties, including Cross. Lang returned to his daily life, but started to become increasingly paranoid about a warning given to him by Kang about a coming threat that only he could stop, leading Lang to question if killing him was the right decision.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### Childhood

 
During his childhood and into his teenage years, Scott Lang was a socially awkward kid. Lang was also a late bloomer, only hitting his growth spurt at the age of fourteen. Around this time, he was also the statistician for a basketball team. He also attempted to gain the affection of women by putting on far too much cologne. 

#### College Years

 
During his freshman year of college, Lang wanted to be known as the smartest guy around, so he never missed an opportunity to flex his knowledge. But this only made him socially isolated from his peers, much to his dismay. Lang later adapted, becoming much more charismatic and actually gaining friends in the process, although he still didn't have much luck finding a date. 

#### Raising a Family

 
Later in life, Lang had earned a master's degree in electrical engineering. With his skills, he would often steal from criminals and give back to those they had stolen from. Lang married a woman named Maggie sometime before 2008. Maggie was very supportive of Lang, but disliked his robberies, albeit from criminals. The couple later had a daughter whom they named Cassandra "Cassie" Lang. Wishing to support his own family, Lang promised his wife that he would stop stealing after Cassie's birth and took up a job at the security company VistaCorp. 

#### The VistaCorp Job

 
 's Mansion]]
In 2012, Lang discovered that VistaCorp was overcharging its customers. At first, he thought it was simply a coding error and changed it. He then realized the company was intentionally doing this to their customers for financial gain when Geoff Zorick, ordered Lang to revert his many corrections before firing him. Angered by VistaCorp's larceny, Lang broke into the VistaCorp Headquarters to hack their systems and pay back the money to VistaCorp's customers. He then broke into Geoff Zorick's Mansion and stole a few items before he got carried away and drove Zorick's car into the mansion's pool. 

#### Prison Sentence and Divorce

 
 
Lang was arrested and given a three-year sentence in San Quentin State Prison. His arrest came at a tenuous part in the Langs' marriage which led them to get divorced following his incarceration, with Maggie eventually becoming engaged to Jim Paxton. Lang was reading the divorce papers when he was introduced to Luis, his cellmate. Luis felt bad for Lang and understood the situation. The two then became best friends. In addition to Luis, Lang built up a friendly rapport with the prison's janitor, Lenny, which helped give him hope during his bleak job. Lang used a similar strategy of friendliness towards his fellow inmates, which netted him the reputation of being "The Guy" at San Quentin. During his time in prison, Lang vowed to never get involved in crime again and focus his attention on helping to raise Cassie, with Lang sending her comic books in the mail as a way to make up for the time he was missing with her. He also picked up gardening during his sentence, tending to his small dirt patch during his thirty-minute yard time. 

#### A Biased Interview

 ]]
 
The day before his release from San Quentin State Prison, Lang was interviewed by Christine Everhart at WHiH World News. They talked about the reason behind his heist at VistaCorp; however, Lang felt that the news station was being unfair, due to VistaCorp being their parent company.
 of the guards]]
His animosity towards the remarks made by the seemingly biased news anchor, caused him to slam his hand onto the desk in frustration, resulting in him getting tased by police guard. 

### Release from San Quentin

#### Job Search

 
 
On July 17, 2015, Lang was released for proper conduct during his stay in the San Quentin State Prison. Before being pardoned, Lang underwent a traditional goodbye ritual where he fought an inmate called Peachy. Lang allowed Peachy to hit him hard across the jaw and successfully stayed on his feet, he then retaliated by hitting his friend in the stomach, which Peachy did not react to. Lang then attempted to distract Peachy and punched him, still failing to knock him down before he and the prisoners embraced.
 
Having said his goodbyes, Lang was finally escorted out of prison, having been freed in the wake of robbing VistaCorp and allowed to have his freedom at last. Being taken outside by two armed guards, Lang was then picked up by Luis. The pair happily embraced before Luis questioned how Lang had gained a cut across his eye, with Lang explaining it had come from Peachy while Luis recalled gaining his own scar from his goodbye punch from Peachy and boasting that he was the only one to ever knock him out with a single punch while they both got into his van to leave.
 while driving]]
As they drove towards San Francisco, Lang thanked his friend for coming all that way out to pick him up before asking how Luis' own relationship with his girlfriend was going, only for Luis to tell him that she had left him. Luis then informed Lang that much of his own life had gone bad, Luis' mother died and his father had gotten deported, all while Lang had been in prison, although Luis still looked on the positive side; at least he gained his parents' van, which Lang complimented was very nice, much to Luis' utter delight while they continued to make their way to the city to restart Lang's life.
 ]]
On the way to The Milgrom Hotel where Lang had been offered a sofa to sleep on for at least his first few weeks of being out of prison and back in the real world, Luis informed Lang of a place they could rob, claiming that he had recruited some highly skilled people who could assist them. However, Lang flat out rejected the idea and claimed that he would not be sent back to prison due to having a daughter he had vowed to focus his efforts on. As Lang was remaining confident that he would be able to find a job, as he still had a master's degree in electronics, Luis however, warned that ex-convicts usually struggled to get employment, although Lang insisted he would be fine.
 ]]
Lang obtained a job at Baskin-Robbins, going by the name of Jack; despite his degree in electronics, his criminal record would prevent him from getting a job as most potential employers would think he would revert to crime, so going by an alias was the best choice. One day, he got a dimwitted teenager as a customer, who kept asking for things that an ice cream shop did not sell. Despite all Lang's polite encouragement to realize he was in the wrong place for those orders, Dale, his manager, called for him allowing Lang to ask a fellow employee to handle the dimwit while he was gone.
 ]]
Inside Dale's office, Lang learned that Baskin-Robbins had found out about his past as the well-known criminal who was responsible for robbing Geoff Zorick and returning all of their money to his former customers and being sent to San Quentin State Prison. Though a fan of his work against the corrupt VistaCorp, Dale was forced to fire Lang due to him lying on his application. Though as some consolation, Dale allowed Lang to take a free smoothie with him when he left and despite him being mortified by Dale's attitude to the situation, Lang took the free smoothie regardless and made his way back home.
 and Kurt Goreshter]]
Arriving at the residence, Lang explained how he had just been fired before being introduced to Kurt Goreshter and Dave, whom Luis had rounded up in hopes of helping in his planned heist if Lang agreed. Luis excitedly explained that Kurt had just gotten out of and went into great detail about Lang's criminal career. He quickly realized what was happening and once again insisted that he would not be going back to stealing as he intended to support his daughter, despite Luis' insistence that the billionaire they would be targeting would be the perfect victim. Lang still refused. 

#### Unwelcome Family Reunion

 ]]
 
On the very same day was Cassie Lang's birthday party, which was being held at Jim Paxton's house. Although he was not invited to the party she was having, Lang turned up at Paxton's home. Cassie was delighted to see him and hugged her father tightly; he managed to give his gift to Cassie despite the cold treatment Paxton gave him. Ignoring Paxton's comments about him not being invited to the party, Lang handed his daughter her birthday present, an ugly rabbit toy which she instantly adored.
 ]]
Cassie then went to inform her mother of Lang's sudden arrival, much to Lang's dismay at being left with Paxton who berated him for failing to pay child support. When his ex-wife Maggie appeared, she asked to speak to Lang outside of their house. From there, they discussed a little bit of what Lang must do before he can visit Cassie again, with Lang insisting that he had a job and was not going back to crime before Maggie demanded that he leave their home and come back once he had gotten himself a job and was able to begin finally paying child support he currently owed to them.
 ' crew]]
Lang was left depressed by this turn of events, as by the time he had saved enough money to pay child support to his ex-wife, he would have missed another two years of Cassie's life. This forced him to listen to Luis' proposal about a crime, to make quick cash. It turned out that the target was the safe belonging to a retired mogul whose money would be protected by insurance so nobody would really be hurt, the kind of target perfect for Lang's morals. With Lang now officially on board, they quickly began planning with Kurt Goreshter and Dave as Lang took charge of the planning of the heist. 

#### Breaking into Pym's Residence

 ]]
 
With the help of his newly found heist team, Lang was able to break into the Pym Residence easily, with Luis staying nearby and offering support from inside his van. Lang was soon slowed down, however, when he discovered the basement door had a fingerprint scanner he had not planned for. Rather than giving up, Lang recreated a fingerprint using a ring, tape, glue, and some heat from the stove, unlocking the door and making his way downstairs.
 
Lang found the vault, which was made of the same 1910s material as the and sparked a brief conversation between Dave and Kurt Goreshter about the . Thinking on his feet, Lang promptly created a freezing agent and poured it into the door, Lang explained to his confused friends over the radio that "ice expands, metal doesn't;" in a few minutes, the ice with burst the door open. He set up a blanket to catch the screws flying out and a mattress to soften the door's fall, and therefore keep any loud noises from alerting the nearby neighbors.
 ]]
As soon as the door was blown open, Lang immediately scanned the room for cash and other valuables, only to find nothing but a few hanging blueprints, some colored liquid contained in test tubes, and a suit with a helmet that seemed to be as a pair of motorcycling attire, informing Luis and the other two of the failure to find anything clearly worth any money. Disappointed that all the security was just for an old outfit, Lang decided to take it anyway for his troubles; he likely planned to sell it at a later point to make a profit off this venture. Unknown to Lang, Hank Pym had been watching everything he did, with a camera mounted on the back of an ant. 

#### Trials of the Suit

 ]]
 
The following day back at The Milgrom Hotel, Lang was alone in the apartment and looking himself in the mirror, considering what he should do next. Taking some time to look at what he stole, Lang studied the Pym Particles, unaware of their power before examining the Ant-Man Suit and there was a helmet, still assuming them to just be motorcycle gear.
 
Seeing that the suit was about his size, Lang then checked the suit and tried it on, standing in the bath to get a better look as he began admiring himself in the mirror. Looking over the suit's design, Lang saw buttons on each glove and began experimenting with them, while nothing happened when he pushed the one on the left glove, he pushed the one on the right, suddenly shrinking to a minuscule size, with even the plug hole of the bath appearing much larger than he was. He promptly fell a great distance into the tub, frightened by his new perspective as he tried to figure out what had just happened and how this could be possible.
 
While Lang continued to panic, Hank Pym used this chance to get through the suit and communicate with Lang, mocking him for his confusion about what was happening and explaining that this would be a trial by fire. During their conversation, Luis arrived and stepped into the bathroom for a bath, causing Lang to have to run for his life as Luis turned on the tap, flooding the bath. The water caught up to Lang who was thrown from the bath and soon fell through a gap in the floor to the room below where he landed on a record player and held on as he was spun around uncontrollably.
 
Lang continued to be thrown across the room without being noticed due to his small size, suffering from landing inside a vacuum cleaner and being attacked by a rat. As Lang desperately ran away from the rat, he crashed into a mouse trap which launched him high into the air and out of a window, where he fell to the street below and landed on a car roof. While lying on the rooftop, Lang finally figured out how to grow back to normal size and freaked out about what he had just witnessed, wanting nothing more to do with the suit and its power.
 ]]
Lang broke back into the Pym Residence again to return the suit to the safe. However, on his way out, he was caught by police officers called by Hope van Dyne who were waiting outside. Without thinking, Lang attempted to defend himself by claiming that he was not stealing anything but was instead returning something that he had stolen. This tactic failed, as he should have left out the part about being the one who had robbed the house in the first place, and Lang was handcuffed and taken straight back to jail. 

#### Prison Break

 in his cell]]
 
Jim Paxton expressed his disappointment to find Lang back in jail again when they thought he had turned for the good and had believed it ever since he had left San Quentin State Prison. Lang was more than annoyed, as Paxton was married to his ex-wife. Paxton's partner Gale came and told him he had a visitor. When Lang asked who it was, the officer simply said that it was his lawyer and then brought him into the visiting room.
 ]]
Lang was greeted by Hank Pym, who was keeping his visit secret by using Ants to block the camera. Pym revealed to Lang that he was behind the heist by getting the information to Luis in order to pass it to Lang. Pym explained that he did all this to test if he got the right man to succeed as the Ant-Man. Lang then wanted to tell that he'd take no part in it anymore, but Pym persuaded him by helping him with Cassie if he agreed to become the Ant-Man. Pym told Lang he should take this second chance and, having given Lang the option, Pym left using the ants to mask his departure.
 to escape]]
Not long after Pym departed, a few ants visited Lang's cell with the Ant-Man Suit, which was promptly re-enlarged with the Pym Particles for him to wear. They formed the number ten and began counting down, which told Lang that he only had a few seconds to don the suit and shrink out of the cell. Lang did so and was congratulated by Pym over the radio for finally listening to what he had told him. Following Pym's instructions, Lang escaped the cell by running below the bars just as Gale arrived and alerted the other police officers of Lang's mysterious disappearance.
 's ant army]]
Making his way outside, Lang made his escape by running out the door and being greeted by a team of ants, one of whom had a camera which Pym used to watch his movements. Lang jumped on the back of a carpenter ant and flew to safety high over the streets of San Francisco while the police department desperately searched for him. As they flew over the city and hitched a ride on the side of a police car, Lang asked Pym questions about the ants until he eventually fell unconscious due to feeling lightheaded from the shock of everything he had been through with this new technology. 

#### Hank Pym's Mission

 ]]
 
The next day, Lang woke up in a bed only to find Hope van Dyne standing at the end of the bed watching him. Van Dyne explained that she had been watching him all night because the last time Lang was at the Pym Residence he had robbed them. Lang was then invited down to breakfast, having to dodge the fire Ants that littered the floor around him.
 's explanation]]
Lang joined Van Dyne and Hank Pym downstairs at their coffee table. Pym then revealed that it was Van Dyne who had Lang arrested for stealing the Ant-Man Suit and explained that she did not think Lang was needed for their upcoming heist. Pym explained he had been watching Lang ever since the VistaCorp robbery as he felt his skills would be useful for them, while Lang was distracted by the ants moving across the table and obeying all of Pym's commands. He eventually decided to question everything that was happening and why he was there in the first place.
 ]]
As they both went downstairs, Pym explained that while he had been working with S.H.I.E.L.D. he had created the Pym Particles, only to decide they were too dangerous and hid them from the world, building Pym Technologies. Pym took on a young protege called Darren Cross who went on to betray him trying to recreate the Pym Particles. Pym told Lang that Cross had almost completed the Yellowjacket Suit which had the potential to destroy the world. Lang agreed to help, claiming his days of being a thief were over, except Pym explained that he needed Lang to be a thief and steal the Yellowjacket suit before Cross could sell it.
 's mission]]
As Pym explained that Mitchell Carson was planning on buying the Yellowjacket, Lang suggested calling the Avengers but Pym refused; explaining that he had spent years keeping the technology away from Howard Stark and noting how Tony Stark misused technology to create Ultron. Lang questioned why Pym was not going and he explained that he was unable to use the suit anymore due to a toll it took on his body. Van Dyne also questioned if Lang was right for the job, leading to a brief argument until Lang agreed to steal the suit from Cross. In exchange, Pym would have Lang employed so that Lang could pay child support in order to retain visitation rights for his daughter. 

### Becoming Ant-Man

#### Beginning Training

 ]]
 
To begin their training, Hank Pym then gave Lang the task of running towards a closed door and jumping through the keyhole while tiny, then use the Pym Particles to return to normal size; this was the first test of mastering how to alter size with the Ant-Man Suit at the right time. While Lang remained confident, he failed time after time again, much to the annoyance of both Hope van Dyne and Pym. Hope was secretly amused by Lang's failings, as she believed that she would have done better than all of his failed attempts.
 ]]
Having struggled with the tests he was given by both Pym and Van Dyne as he was still unable to leap through the keyhole correctly without crashing into the door and injuring himself, Lang decided to take it upon himself to try and use his own engineering skills to improve the design of the Ant-Man Suit, seeking a way to redesign the Ant-Man Suit in order to get the advantage over Darren Cross before they would steal the Yellowjacket Suit from him. With this in his mind, Lang took the suit into the Pym Residence basement and began taking it apart to understand exactly how it worked.
 ]]
While Lang was pulling the suit apart and studying the different pieces of technology, he was found and confronted by Pym. Lang explained that he intended to rework the regulator on the suit, but was told that if he did, then he would risk going subatomic. Lang questioned what Pym meant by this and was told he would enter the Quantum Realm where he would then become trapped for all time in the dark section of the Multiverse, with Pym hinting that he knew someone this had happened to. Now aware of the dangers, Lang agreed not to mess with the regulator. 

#### Combat Training

 ]]
 
For all the physical parts of stealing the Yellowjacket Suit, Lang had to prepare himself for knocking out the guards as he made his way to the suit. He was then trained by Hope van Dyne. She explained to Lang that the wearer of the Ant-Man Suit must control their strength or they could kill. Hope said she would teach him how to punch but Lang scoffed at this, noting he was in San Quentin State Prison for three years for robbing VistaCorp so he knew how to punch, having hit Peachy.
 ]]
Lang invited van Dyne to show him how to punch, lifting up his hand for her, but she responded by punching him in the face and knocking him to the ground. They were joined by Hank Pym who noted with great amusement that van Dyne had been looking forward to fighting Lang, explaining she had been trained in since a young age. It was noted by van Dyne that she had begun training when her own mother had died, saying that Pym had never told her the truth about her mother's death. As Pym left, Lang got up and questioned if van Dyne had aimed her punch for his hand or his face.
 
They trained together and neither one held back with their fighting styles, with Lang quickly learning that van Dyne was not a woman to be underestimated as she was a superior fighter compared to him. As Lang's fighting skills improved under van Dyne's training, he became cocky, mocking van Dyne when he landed a strike on her, only to be quickly silenced when van Dyne would pin him to the ground and twist his arm back, forcing him to yield. Lang soon found himself covered with bruises and cuts, which he patched up, being watched by van Dyne as he tended to all of his injuries.
 ]]
Lang was informed by van Dyne that Pym wanted to see him outside of the Pym Residence in order to train with target practice. Pym then showed Lang his new Pym Particle Discs, noting that because the Ant-Man Suit did not have any actual weapons, he had decided to design and make these, which would use the Pym Particles to either strike or enlarge items without killing. Pym demonstrated this to Lang by throwing the discs at his garden gnomes which tripled in size upon contact with the disks before Lang and Pym practiced throwing the disks at their targets to master the skill for the mission. 

#### Meeting the Ants

 
 
Being taken into the basement, Hank Pym told Lang that while he was still learning how to control the Ant-Man Suit, it was also time that he met and mastered controlling his most important allies for their mission, the Ants themselves. Donning the Ant-Man suit, Lang was sent into the Pym Residence garden to explore the tunnels created by the ants while Hope van Dyne and Pym watched him from the sidelines.
 
While inside the tunnels, Lang first encountered the small crazy ant, which could be used to conduct electricity and also carry cameras and other devices into Pym Technologies Headquarters to help him fry the security systems before Lang would be able to attempt to then steal the Yellowjacket Suit. Lang at first viewed it as cute and allowed it to climb on top of him. However, when the rest of the small army of ants charged in and surrounded Lang, he freaked out and returned to normal size, slightly embarrassed as Lang burst through the ground while Pym and van Dyne were still watching all his actions.
 ]]
The next stage of Lang's training involved meeting the army of flying carpenter ants which would assist Lang to his missions by flying him inside. There, he was reintroduced to the ant that flew him out of San Quentin State Prison. Lang almost immediately developed a strong connection to the ant, feeding him some water and even renaming him Ant-thony, which Pym approved of as he told Lang that he would soon need to master communicating with all of the ants ready for the mission by using the EMP Communication Device, tasking him with telling some of the ants to put some sugar in a mug of tea.
 
Lang was introduced to a group of bullet ants, which he remembered as the kind that had covered the bedroom floor when he had awoken in the Pym Residence. When the ants charged at Lang, he yet again freaked out and used the Pym Particles to regrow to normal size. Finally, Pym showed Lang all of the fire ants which could be used as natural architects and transport Lang throughout tight corners and difficult to move locations by creating long structures, like rafts and bridges. Lang tested out his skills of communication with the Ants as he ran down the tunnels with them all as his tiny army. 

While Lang initially had trouble communicating with the ants due to him constantly worrying about Cassie, after some counseling from van Dyne, he concentrated his constant concern into forming a strong connection with the ants at his disposal. 

#### Becoming One with the Ants

 
In order to become more acquainted with the Ants, Hope van Dyne and Hank Pym requested that Lang take a journey into the Hill, a massive anthill in the backyard of the Pym Residence which served as a central hub for all of the ants in the area. After shrinking his way inside, Lang noticed that the colony was moving their eggs and larvae to a warmer part of the mound. Thinking that, if he assisted the ants in their task, they would become more friendly towards him, Lang grabbed one of the eggs, only for the ants to begin to swarm him response. Luckily, Lang kept his cool and successfully ordered the ants off of him and, with the help of a little bit of sugar to distract the ants, he was able to escape from the Hill.

Returning to van Dyne and Pym in Pym's lab, Pym scolded Lang for returning so soon, but van Dyne was more reassuring. She told Lang that he needed to rally the ants behind a common cause, giving Pym's early EMP tests with the Ant-Man Suit as an example. With van Dyne's advice in tow, Lang journeyed back into the Hill.

Once in the Hill, Lang noticed a rotting lemon that was dripping its acidic juice down into the Hill. Realizing that this was a big problem for the ants, Lang called upon them to lift him up so he could move the lemon. Knowing that they had a common enemy, the ants happily accepted Lang's call to action, forming a tower that lifted Lang high enough for him to reach the lemon. Much to Lang's dismay, he saw Pym walking away from the scene, implying that he placed the lemon there. Lang didn't care that much, however, as he and the ants had finally become a team. 

#### Mission Planning

 
 
While still attempting to master all of the skills he would need for the mission, Lang was also briefed by Hank Pym on exactly how they planned to infiltrate the Pym Technologies Headquarters in order to finally steal the Yellowjacket Suit. Lang was informed that the headquarters had guards by the security systems, explaining that they would need to take out the guard in order to turn off the security and then retrieve the Yellowjacket Suit without being caught.
 
Lang listened closely as Hope van Dyne explained to him how the Yellowjacket Suit was currently secured within a pod which was hermetically sealed and the only access point is a tube that they had estimated to be about five millimeters in diameter. Lang noted he was getting sick to his stomach as van Dyne explained he would have to get the Ants to shut off the power to the laser grid so he could collect the suit and get out within fifteen seconds when the backup power would come on, all before Darren Cross could even discover their deception, a plan which worried Lang. 

#### Hank Pym's Confession

 ]]
 
Despite all of his work in trying to master his new abilities, Lang still found it almost impossible to successfully communicate with all of the Ants, much to the continued frustration of Hank Pym. Believing that their chances of successfully completing their mission with Lang as the Ant-Man were now nearly impossible, Hope van Dyne once again proved that she was the better choice for the mission by demonstrating how she could easily communicate with the ants.
 ]]
Eventually, Pym ordered van Dyne to stop, causing her to get in her father's face and tell him that she did not understand why she ever thought he could help stop Darren Cross in the first place before storming out of the Pym Residence in frustration. Pym then told Lang that they could complete the plan without van Dyne's assistance, so Lang followed van Dyne out and listened as van Dyne explained how her relationship with Pym had fallen apart ever since her mother, Janet van Dyne had died, noting that Pym had never explained how she had died and sent her to boarding school as a result.
 
When van Dyne claimed Pym chose Lang to be the Ant-Man as he did not trust her, Lang corrected her by noting that it was because he did not want to lose her like he had lost his wife, noting that Pym had clearly viewed him as expendable. Van Dyne then apologized for having Lang arrested by Jim Paxton, noting that she did not know he had a daughter at the time. Feeling a closer connection to Lang now, van Dyne gave him back the EMP Communication Device before she then assisted him in mastering communication with the ants, as Lang successfully made the ants spin a coin with his mind.
 and van Dyne's moment]]
As Lang and van Dyne returned to the Pym Residence, they were greeted by Hank Pym, who told van Dyne that her mother worked with him at S.H.I.E.L.D. under the codename of the Wasp and had been become trapped within the Quantum Realm when she saved the United States of America from a Soviet missile attack. Having learned the truth, van Dyne finally forgave her father and the two embraced. The emotional and intimate moment between Pym and his daughter ended when Lang commented on the beauty of the moment, unintentionally ruining it before quickly leaving.
 ]]
With new confidence in his team, Lang excelled at the other forms of his training to prepare to break into Pym Technologies and soon steal the Yellowjacket Suit. Much to his delight, Lang perfected leaping through a keyhole in the Ant-Man Suit and communicating with the ants to form a tiny army ready to be used for infiltration. Lang even bonded with one ant which he named Ant-thony. Meanwhile, Pym continued to work with the Pym Particles while Lang helped load tiny cameras onto the backs on the ants to allow Pym and van Dyne a way to watch the mission unfold in real time. 

#### Duel at the Avengers Compound

 to his mission]]
 
Confident that his training was going well, Hank Pym sent Lang on a mission retrieve a Signal Decoy which was being held inside of an old building that was used by Howard Stark, citing that this device would later assist Lang when it came time to steal the Yellowjacket Suit from Darren Cross. However, it had turned out Pym's intel was long-outdated, as this "storage facility" had since been converted into the Avengers Compound, much to Lang's utter horror.
 ]] 
Pym told Lang to return to San Francisco. Instead, Lang still decided to go to the facility and landed on the roof leading to an encounter with Falcon, who was guarding the facility. Despite believing his small size would keep him undetected, Lang found that Falcon's goggles were able to zoom in on him. Lang attempted to explain his situation to Falcon, being polite and introducing himself while also noting that he was a big fan of the Avengers. Falcon did not believe his claims and attempted to arrest Lang, forcing Lang to shrink in size.
 's attacks]]
While the confused Falcon attempted to figure out where the now tiny Lang had disappeared to, Ant-Man then launched up and hit him in the face, resulting in Falcon activating his EXO-7 Falcon which had knocked Ant-Man off the roof with a gust of wind. Although he tried to escape, Ant-Man was quickly spotted by Falcon who then tried to shoot at him, with Ant-Man hiding beside the gun barrel and then defending himself. During the fight, Lang used the Ant-Man Suit and his new fighting skills to keep up with Falcon, although he continually apologized for being forced to hit him during their skirmish.
 ]]
Despite Lang using his size to his advantage, Falcon was eventually able to land a hard punch on his, causing the Pym Particles to revert Lang to his normal size. While Hank Pym furiously ordered Lang to stop what he was doing, Lang continued fighting as the Falcon hit him repeatedly and flew him high up into the air. However, Lang still remained determined to complete his current mission as he had been instructed to do and managed to use his suit's shrinking abilities and the Falcon's own technology to his advantage, dragging the Falcon across the ground before launching him through the air.
 ]]
Eventually, seeing that Falcon would still be able to spot him in the grass, Lang called Ant-thony to assist him by quickly flying him inside the facility where he soon stole the device. Having taken the device as Pym and Hope van Dyne had ordered him to do, Ant-Man managed to hide from the Falcon as Lang prepared to try and new tactic to defeat him and then make his escape. As the Falcon again attempted to stop him from getting away, Ant-Man shrunk down and entered inside of the EXO-7 Falcon Suit and attempted to disable it by ripped out all of the wires from within the suit itself.
 ]]
As a result, the Falcon's wings began to malfunction, causing him to crash through the doors and back outside as Lang still continued to apologize for doing any harm to a member of the Avengers. Despite Falcon spinning around to attempt and throw Ant-Man out of his suit, Falcon eventually crash landed and was unable to find Ant-Man, with Lang escaping the facility with the help of Ant-thony, while the Falcon insisted that Captain America never learn of the incident. This brief skirmish between them greatly impressed Falcon, who was on a lookout for some new and talented people to join the Avengers. 

#### Complicating the Plan

 is in the house]]
 
As the group discussed the heist, Darren Cross arrived at the Pym Residence, planning to kill Hank Pym, but he chose against it. Not wanting Cross to see the plans, Lang had ants roll them up. Cross eventually left but he called Hope van Dyne to tell her that he was beefing up security. At this point, Cross knew Hank was the previous Ant-Man and worried that he might try to steal the Yellowjacket Suit, so he ensured that security measures were taken that could detect even the tiniest living beings, including a person the size of an ant.
 ]]
Knowing that they would need help with getting past the extra security, Lang, despite Pym's misgivings, sought the aid of Luis, Kurt Goreshter, and Dave. He showed them how the suit worked managing to scare them into thinking it was magic briefly. After being briefed on the plan, Scott let Hope drug them with Xanax while Hank bored them by explaining the suit's science; as a result, the three got to spend some quiet time on the rest of the plan. 

#### Stealing the Yellowjacket

 during the heist]]
 
Despite the logistical setbacks imposed by Cross, the team still managed to infiltrate the facility while Cross was holding an important event. Luis, posing as a security guard, gained access to the building's water main and shut it off long enough for Lang and his army of ants to gain access. Lang managed to make it into the hermetically sealed chamber that contained the Yellowjacket Suit, but at the last moment, Cross revealed his awareness of their plan and trapped Lang inside the chamber after removing the Yellowjacket suit.
 ]] 
Momentarily having the upper hand, Darren Cross' security held Hank Pym and Hope van Dyne at gunpoint while he chastised Pym for his failures as a mentor and a scientist. Cross introduced Mitchell Carson from Hydra who intended to purchase the Yellowjacket Suit. Cross then took a gun and aimed it at Pym, intending to execute his former mentor. A scuffle broke out in which Lang was able to escape the chamber by smashing through the glass and assisted Pym and van Dyne fighting Cross' guards. Pym fought Cross but was shot in the shoulder; Lang and van Dyne ran to Pym's aid, but he insisted that Lang go after Cross before he escaped. 

#### Stopping Darren Cross

 ' helicopter]]
 
Darren Cross attempted to evacuate the Pym Technologies Headquarters via private helicopter, taking hostages with him. Ant-Man pursued him and while distracted, Cross donned the Yellowjacket Suit. The two fought at both normal and shrunken sizes, with Yellowjacket's energy weapons disabling the pilots of the helicopter and sending it crashing to the ground. Lang and Cross fell from the helicopter as it was crashing, landing in an unsuspecting family's backyard pool while shrunk, only for the two of them to return to normal size and continue fighting, terrifying the family. Lang momentarily won the battle when he used a ping-pong paddle to swat Cross into a bug zapper, electrocuting him and rendering him unconscious.
 ]]
Jim Paxton arrived due to the disturbance and despite Lang's attempts to explain, he was tasered by Paxton to shut him up and arrest him. Waking up in the back of the squad car, Lang attempted to explain again, but Paxton believed that Lang was simply delusional (given the Ant-Man suit made Scott look like he lost his mind and was playing dress up). At that moment, a dispatch call announced that there was a hostage situation at the address of Jim Paxton's House. Lang knew that Darren Cross had woken up and was using his daughter to get to him. 

#### Duel at Jim Paxton's House

 ]]
 
Despite Jim Paxton's refusal to listen to him, Lang managed to get his helmet back on and shrink out of his handcuffs. Lang arrived and the battle between Scott and Cross continued, proving at this point to the rival father figure that he was morally sound. Lang used some of the devices that Pym gave him, often missing Cross and either shrinking or enlarging random items, such as enlarging an ant to the size of a dog, or a toy to the size of a real locomotive.
 ]]
Eventually, Lang had the same revelation that Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne had decades earlier when he failed to access the internals of Cross' suit, which Cross defiantly gloats is due to its titanium construction. Lang accepted that his fate would be like Janet's and disabled the regulator on his suit, shrinking small enough to pass through the atomic structure of the titanium and into Cross' suit. Lang then permanently disabled the Yellowjacket and caused Cross to vanish into thin air. 

#### Quantum Realm

 ]]
 
While he had succeeded in disabling the Yellowjacket Suit and also stopping Darren Cross' plans, Ant-Man discovered that he continued to shrink at various intervals, just as Hank Pym had hypothesized. Shrinking well into the subatomic world, witnessing an existence that was perceptually very strange from our own. As he traveled deeper and deeper inside the Quantum Realm where all time and space was eternal seemingly inescapable, Ant-Man began desperately searching for a way to return home rather than be trapped within there forever. He was then met by Janet van Dyne who implanted something in his brain in hopes that Pym and Hope van Dyne could find her. 
 ]]
A terrified Cassie cried out for him, with her voicing booming in the Quantum Realm. Being shaken back to his senses by this, Lang quickly thought of a way to return; he placed one of the Pym Particle Discs into the regulator of his Ant-Man Suit. Activating the growth function, Lang instantly returned to the normal world and reunited with his Cassie, with Jim Paxton expressing his own gratitude for saving them both. Knowing that he would be arrested if discovered, Lang promptly shrunk out of sight when the police then showed up, using a lamp to enlarge his shadow, Lang saluted goodbye to her and headed off to return to Hank Pym. 

#### Heist Aftermath

 ]]
 
Following the events, Jim Paxton dropped the case against Lang. When questioned by Hank Pym about his experience in the Quantum Realm, Lang could not recall anything, including Janet's presence. Pym guessed that the human mind can only handle so much out of the normal. Hope van Dyne escorted him outside Pym's sitting room, leaving him to briefly contemplate that Janet van Dyne may still be alive.
 ]]
Once they were alone in the Pym Residence hallway, Lang and van Dyne shared a kiss: However, they were quickly discovered when Pym then opened the door to find Lang kissing his daughter. Lang feigned innocence, claiming that van Dyne had kissed him; she didn't deny it, though it looked like he had kissed her. He quickly walked off to go have dinner at Jim Paxton's House with his family, as Pym called after him, calling him out for being a poor liar, something Lang did not even bother denying as he made his hasty departure. 

### Sought by the Avengers

#### Updated by Luis

 ]]
 
Months later, Jim Paxton invited Lang to have dinner with the family so he could spend time with Cassie Lang, who had adopted the dog-sized ant as a pet, as payment for saving his daughter's life. During the meal, Paxton told Lang that he would not be arrested as it had been decided that a glitch in the system had caused his earlier release. Lang thanked Paxton personally for this action, knowing that it put his own career on the line, but Paxton insisted he was happy to do it to help out Cassie's father.
 is searching for him]]
During the dinner, Lang received a call from Luis who wanted to meet with him. When Lang met with Luis, who was also there with Dave and Kurt Goreshter, he recalled that in his chain of contacts, someone informed him that Falcon was looking for Lang, due to being impressed with his skills in their brief fight and was now interested in recruiting him into the Avengers. Lang questioned what Luis had told his contacts and he explained that he had told them that he did indeed know the Ant-Man, much to Lang's great dismay at the news. 

#### Recruited by Captain America

 ]]
 
In June 2016, Lang was recruited by Clint Barton during the resulting fallout caused by the Sokovia Accords to support Steve Rogers and his team. Lang arrived in Berlin by van and was introduced to Captain America and the rest of the team, showing a great deal of excitement at meeting Rogers and Wanda Maximoff among others. He thanked Rogers for choosing him to assist during this skirmish, noting Rogers likely had other choices.
 ]]
Lang apologized to Sam Wilson for the fight they had; Wilson was not angry, calling the fight a great audition and claimed that it would never happen again. Rogers told Lang that they were acting outside the law, but Lang did not refuse to assist him. Rogers then explained that they were going up against the Winter Soldiers who were going to be freed by Helmut Zemo and must be stopped before they could cause chaos across the whole world. 

#### Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport

 from Spider-Man]]
 
When Iron Man and his team approached Captain America in the Leipzig-Halle Airport and the situation escalated with Spider-Man taking Captain America's shield, Ant-Man used the distraction of the ensuing argument to sneak forward and stole the shield, kicking Spider-Man in the face before proudly handing the shield back to Captain America.
 ]]
While Iron Man and other members of the team charged after Rogers and other members of their team, including Hawkeye and Winter Soldier, Lang was left face to face with Black Widow, noting that he really did not want to hurt her. The two began fighting regardless and Ant-Man shrunk down and attempted to twist Black Widow's arm around her back; However, she activated her bite which sent Ant-Man flying backward while she moved onwards.
 ]]
Catching up with Captain America, Ant-Man found what he thought was a water truck and shrunk it down, handing it to Captain America and telling him to throw it at one of his Pym Particle Discs. Captain America did just that and the truck returned to its original size, falling towards War Machine and Black Panther. However, it exploded upon impact, much to Ant-Man's surprise as he apologized to Captain America for his mistake before they made a hasty retreat.
 's team]]
Rejoining Falcon and Wanda Maximoff among the other members of Captain America's team, Ant-Man attempted to run to the Quinjet to escape, but their path was then blocked by the Vision, forcing the two opposing teams to face off against each other. Following their leader's direction, Ant-Man followed his teammates as they charged forward and engaged in a fierce clash against the various heroes who had joined Iron Man's team supporting the Sokovia Accords, with Ant-Man once again fighting against Black Widow.
 's arrow]]
Having gotten away from Black Widow, Ant-Man teamed up with Hawkeye and they decided to take care of their opponent's leader in order to gain a much-needed advantage in this fight. Ant-Man took position on Hawkeye's Scatter Arrow, giving his approval and was propelled through the air to hijack Iron Man's suit, dodging shots fired from Iron Man's gauntlets and diving through Iron Man's fingers and get within the suit itself and cause some mayhem.
 's systems]]
Once inside the suit, Ant-Man used his mechanical knowledge to greatly damage the suit's many weapons systems, mocking Tony Stark as he panicked and tried to understand what was happening, with Ant-Man claiming to be the voice of Iron Man's own conscience. Ant-Man continued the mission to damage the suit as much as possible, which he managed to do before Iron Man finally ordered F.R.I.D.A.Y. to use the suit's own extinguishing foam to force Ant-Man out. 

#### Giant-Man Attacks

 
 
As the fight progressed, Hawkeye then noted that unless something drastic happened, this showdown was looking like an impending stalemate. Captain America agreed, and Falcon asked the team for a distraction. Ant-Man chimed in that he had a possible idea, but had tested it only once in a laboratory, and the test had left him in rough shape.
 
Running out of options, Captain America did not object and Ant-Man let loose his distraction. Ant-Man got his adrenaline pumping as he jumped onto the back of War Machine and used the suit to grow into a monstrous size as he towered over the entire airport and grabbed War Machine by his leg, laughing maniacally at his success. Giant-Man reigned shock and mayhem on Iron Man's forces, all of whom were too distracted by him to notice Rogers was escaping.
 
Wreaking havoc across the airport to keep the enemies distracted, Giant-Man threw War Machine across the airport before he ripped the wing of a nearby airplane. He then attempted to attack Black Panther; However, he was knocked back by War Machine firing explosives near his face. Meanwhile, Vision reappeared on the battlefield and knocked Giant-Man back before flying through him to try and stop Captain America's escape by blocking his path.
 ]]
While Wanda Maximoff helped Captain America get past Vision, Giant-Man found himself surrounded by Iron Man, War Machine and Spider-Man, all of whom worked together to try and defeat Giant-Man however they could. Taking inspiration from , Spider-Man used his own Web-Shooters to tie up Giant-Man's legs and force him to become unbalanced before Iron Man and War Machine both flew upwards and knocked him to the ground.
 
Although Giant-Man was taken out of the fight, this stunt provided exactly the distraction Captain America and Winter Soldier needed to escape, taking control of the Quinjet and using it to get away from the battlefield. With his weight having been used against him, Giant-Man accepted his defeat. Exhausted at this point in the battle, Giant-Man engaged the suit and returned to his regular size, requested orange slices to help him recover from the painful experience. 

#### Prisoner of the Raft

 ]]
 
After the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport, Lang, Clint Barton, Wanda Maximoff, and Sam Wilson were all captured, along with the Ant-Man Suit, and taken to the Raft where they were imprisoned under the orders of Thaddeus Ross for destroying the airport and aiding Captain America, the Winter Soldier and Falcon. When Tony Stark visited, Lang said Hank Pym was right not to trust the Starks. Much to Lang's frustration, the Avenger leader asked him who he is sparing only a confused and dismissive glance at Lang before he moved on to speak with Wilson. 

#### Escape from the Raft

 
 
Lang was then forced to continue his sentence within the Raft, playing a beat by tapping his hands on a chair; however, Rogers infiltrated the Raft and freed him, Clint Barton, Sam Wilson, and Wanda Maximoff from their imprisonment, with Lang recovering the suit.

Lang soon returned to his daughter in San Francisco, knowing he was still a wanted man for allying himself with Steve Rogers, and alongside Barton ended up making a deal with the government to be placed under two years of house arrest instead of being returned to the Raft. In order to prevent the suit from being taken, Lang informed the authorities, and later Hank Pym and Hope van Dyne that he had destroyed the suit, although in reality he had shrunk the suit down and mailed it to Luis for safekeeping. Van Dyne then broke up with Lang for his stint in Germany. 

### Under House Arrest

#### Occupying Himself

 
As per his deal, Lang was sentenced to two years of house arrest, followed by three years of probation, along with no contact with Hank Pym or Hope van Dyne. Should he disobey any of these conditions, he would face twenty years in federal prison. One of the ways Lang kept himself occupied was arbitrarily change his daily routine in odd ways, such as sleeping standing up or having breakfast for dinner. This was something Lang had previously done during his time in San Quentin. Lang did many other activities during this time including playing video games, learning , reading books he'd always meant to, cooking, and drumming, although his talents with the drums weren't appreciated neighbors. 

#### Reconnecting with Loved Ones

 
Starting to feel the loneliness of house arrest creep up on him, Lang decided to use this time to reconnect with his family. One of the upsides of Lang's house arrest is it gave all the time in the world to be with especially Cassie, with Lang turning the plethora of delivery boxes he had lying around his home into various cardboard creations for him and Cassie to play with. These included the Cardboard Roller Coaster, the Cardboard Robot War, the Cardboard Pony Ride, and the Cardboard Water Park, which Lang would later call ill-advised. Lang also found other ways to keep Cassie entertained, such as using Pym Particles to create a giant jelly donut. Lang also spent this time speaking with friends constantly, going on to form the security consultation business X-Con Security Consultants with Luis, Kurt Goreshter, and Dave. 

#### Almost Free

 ]]
 
 about the house pitch]]
On April 29, 2018, after nearly finishing his two years under house arrest, Lang was at his house with Cassie, where they were playing a treasure game, trying to find a micro treasure. Using a pretend map, Lang went through trials to find it such as Ant-on for directions using Luis' help and going through fake lasers. Once they reached their destination, Lang was surprised to see his "Greatest Grandma" trophy, questioning why it was picked as the treasure. Cassie responded that it was a treasure to her and wanted to take to show-and-tell, but Lang rejected that idea.
 about shrinking down]]
Stating that the trophy was very important, Lang made the decision to keep it, leading Cassie to agree. Interrupted, Luis told Lang about the abundance of security cameras inside a house they are selling but told Lang told him not to worry about the amount as long as they are approved. Once they were done talking, Lang and Cassie went on over to the stairs filled with cardboard and slide onto Ant-oinette across the room and outside of the backyard, crash landing a fence.
 not to worry]]
Once they crash-landed, Lang was told by Cassie that she wished she shrank down to small size to which Lang agreed that it was cool to become minuscule. Luis came back to check up on Lang and told that he'll leave for work despite his nerves being unadjusted. Telling Luis to not worry, Lang discovered his leg with an Ankle Monitor was away from his house and broke the fence, resulting in the FBI coming to check on him.
 ]]
Once the FBI noticed the signal, Lang's home was checked upon his accident. Lang told Jimmy Woo not to worry about the incident as he didn't mean to trigger the signal. Once Cassie questioned Woo of his actions, Lang noticed his explanation of the Sokovia Accords and that he was in trouble for his visit with Captain America. Lang sarcastically insulted Woo's explanation, but took it as a compliment. Woo then questioned Lang about any contact with Hank Pym and Hope van Dyne, but Lang told him that never tried to contact them.
 as she leaves]]
After suffering another checkup with the FBI, Lang witnessed Maggie Lang and Jim Paxton picking up Cassie and promised her that once his three-day arrest is over, he will spend time with her by eating ice cream, simulating another card trick before her farewell. As he had the home all to himself, Lang spent the day on playing the drums, bowling, learning more , doing , reading , and making paper birds in his room.
 ]]
During his regular bath routine, Lang had a dream where he saw himself in the Quantum Realm once again before taking on the body of Janet van Dyne in memory of hers in which he found a little girl hiding in a red dresser. Startled by the vision, Lang woke from his sleep and went to the room and inexplicably called Pym about it, using a secret phone to contact him, but no one answered and instead left a message. 

#### Kidnapped by Hope

 
 
The following night, Lang was watching on the TV while eating cereal only for a tiny insect to sting him on the neck. Not thinking anything of it, he continued eating cereal until he suddenly fell unconscious. After a brief sleep, Lang woke up in the passenger seat of a van and saw van Dyne sitting beside him, driving ahead. Lang then told van Dyne if being with her was a dream to which she retorted with asking if her mother was seen in his dream.
 ]]
Taking a moment to realize his location, Lang freaked out as he knew the FBI would be on the chase for him. Van Dyne showed him that the Ankle Monitor was off and that he was safe, but both she and Pym were very mad at him for participating in the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport in Germany, as it caused her and Pym to be fugitives due to the fact that the Ant-Man Suit, which was a violation of the Sokovia Accords, was built by and belonged to them, and had to cease communicating with Lang. Lang explained that he was recruited quickly by the Avengers who picked him up, stating Steve Rogers needed his help.
 about destroying the suit]]
When they arrive at the Mobile Laboratory, Lang noticed a big structure being built by ants, which Pym and van Dyne mention is a portal to the Quantum Realm, whose concepts came from one Pym made when he worked at S.H.I.E.L.D. As they continued to talk, Lang was told that he destroyed the Ant-Man Suit in case of any suspicion but lied to Pym about destroying it, leaving Pym in such dismay. As he kept on apologizing, Lang mentioned his dream while calling him.
 
As Pym and van Dyne noticed his mention of the dream, Lang told them about him being Janet van Dyne playing hide-and-seek with joy as a young little girl hides away from a dresser. After telling about his dream, Pym and van Dyne had finally gathered a connection that Janet may be alive in the Quantum Realm. To finish their portal, they still needed a component to keep the tunnel from powering up. As Pym and van Dyne are leaving the lab, Lang told them not to involve him with the plan or else he'll end up in prison.
 's lab shrunken down]]
Once Hope van Dyne explained she'll bring him back to his home, Lang listened to Pym about the entanglement won't last him long enough and needed to move quickly. Lang then asked Pym and van Dyne that he needed to hide inside only for the lab being shrunken down and was told to put on his clothes that van Dyne brought along. To get the component, they drove on a new van from Pym's car collection to close a deal with Sonny Burch. 

### Returning to Ant-Man

#### First Encounter with Ghost

 fighting Sonny Burch's men]]
 
When they arrived at the Oui, van Dyne revealed she had purchased from Burch, a black-market dealer, the parts she and Pym needed for their Quantum Realm portal. However, van Dyne had been going by a different name, Susan, and Burch mentioned he had learned her real name and relation to Hank Pym, and then he forced her to give him the money. Van Dyne ended up leaving the money without the part, but she quickly fought them off afterward in her Wasp Suit to successfully gain the portal part.
 trying to find Ghost]]
Just after van Dyne succeeded, a figure known as Ghost appeared and challenged van Dyne for the portal part. Van Dyne was losing, but Lang had no suit with him until Pym offered a prototype suit. Ant-Man showed up and aided Wasp into taking down Ghost. She, however, knocked them out and then stole Pym's Mobile Laboratory, which had their lab in it.
 ' X-Con office]]
To find a place to figure out what happened, Lang suggested going to X-Con Security Consultants Office. Luis said that there were rumors about someone who could phase through walls, which they saw at the restaurant. They needed help, and although he didn't like it, Pym had a former colleague from S.H.I.E.L.D. who could help. 

#### Meeting Bill Foster

 and Pym visit Bill Foster]]
 
Lang realized that he would soon have to return home so that the FBI could not find out that he had been breaking house arrest. Pym and van Dyne insisted that they must get the lab back, as it was their only way of finding Janet and rescuing her from the Quantum Realm. The trio found that the tracker on Pym's lab had been disabled, leaving them with only one option for tracking it. Reluctantly and begrudgingly, they visited Pym's estranged former partner, Bill Foster, at his college office. Foster told Lang that he and Pym used to work together on a project known as Project G.O.L.I.A.T.H. before Pym discredited Foster and broke off their partnership. Lang saw several FBI agents milling around the campus and suspected that the three of them must have been recognized. They narrowly escaped being arrested, but not before Foster can give them advice on how to track the lab using the regulator from one of Pym's suits.
 about the battle]]
Pym found that the only two suits remaining without a damaged regulator were the new one Lang was using and the one Lang had used in Germany, which he had promised he had destroyed. Lang confided that he actually did not destroy the second suit, but had kept it safe in case of an emergency inside a trophy Cassie had given him. They found, however, that Cassie had taken the trophy to school for show-and-tell, forcing Lang and van Dyne to sneak into the school and steal the suit out of the trophy. While inside the school, Lang's regulator malfunctioned, causing him to grow and shrink to random sizes, before getting stuck at the height of an elementary schooler. They escaped the school and used the regulator to track down Pym's Mobile Laboratory in the Ghost's lair, where she knocked them out.
 and Pym captured by Ghost]]
When the three came to, the Ghost revealed herself to be Ava Starr, daughter of another of Pym's former partners, Elihas Starr, who died in an accident that occurred while trying to replicate Pym's Quantum Tunnel after being discredited and fired from the project. The same accident killed Starr's mother as well but rendered Starr herself quantumly unstable. This meant she was capable of passing through walls and existing in multiple realities at once, though it took a toll on her: her powers were difficult to control and caused her immense pain, and would ultimately kill her if not cured soon. Foster had developed a way of using quantum energy fields to temporarily nullify her powers for periods of time, but they were not as effective anymore and Starr concluded that she would need to harvest Janet's quantum energy in order to cure herself, even if it killed Janet. Pym refused to let this happen and caused a distraction that allowed the three of them to escape with his lab once again.
 ]]
Now in possession of the part, they were previously missing, Pym and van Dyne were able to open a stable version of the Quantum Tunnel, allowing Janet to send through a full message by temporarily possessing Lang's body. She, through Lang, helped them obtain the exact coordinates to find her in the Quantum Realm, but warned them that they had mere hours before the unstable realm separated them for centuries. Lang was then warned by Luis that Burch had tipped off contact at the FBI as to Lang's location and he was forced to flee home in order for the FBI to find him still under house arrest. 

#### Tricking Woo

 ]]
 
Having been warned by Luis, Lang headed back home as quickly as the ant could fly, but not before getting the cold shoulder from van Dyne and Pym for getting them in trouble again. Seeing the FBI arrive, Lang headed to the bathroom, which was on the highest floor. When Cassie entered looking for him, Lang returned to normal size and asked her to buy some time by telling Jimmy Woo that he was throwing up badly. Quickly changing into his pajamas, Lang feigned vomiting as he heard Woo coming up the stairs. Woo promptly left as there was no evidence of Lang breaking house arrest.
 ]]
Later, Cassie told him that he needed a partner to watch his back, suggesting herself. However, Lang tells her that he doesn't want her to be part of the dangerous side of his life. He tells her that van Dyne would be a good partner for him. Cassie agreed with him, saying it's a good fit. 

#### Chase for the Mobile Laboratory

 and Hope van Dyne]]
 
Meanwhile, Hope van Dyne and Hank Pym were caught by FBI agents once they shrink the Mobile Laboratory. Agent Stoltz managed to obtain it, but he was suddenly attacked by Ghost, who then took the lab herself. Lang used the trained ants to help van Dyne and Pym break out of the FBI facility. The Ants guided the three to the lab's location, and Luis joined them as a backup.
 ]]
Lang, van Dyne and Hank located the lab and used ants to disable the machines so Ghost and Bill Foster would not be able to access the Quantum Realm. They then draw Ghost out, allowing Hank to go inside the lab. Ant-Man, Wasp and Luis looking for Ghost. Lang suddenly got attacked by Ghost and the two began to fight. However, the Ant-Man Suit continued to malfunction, causing him not to be able to escape. This was a distraction for Pym was successful in entering the Quantum Realm, allowing them to shrink the lab and drive off with it.
 and Luis]]
Lang made his escape and met up with Wasp and Luis at the rendezvous point. As they were driving, van Dyne noticed Sonny Burch approach them with his goons, causing them to chase through San Francisco. Lang then joined them in the van as more goons approached on motorbikes. Lang and van Dyne then told Lang to drive as she moved to the back to defeat the goons herself. Lang and Luis then crashed the van, causing Starr to get away from them, but Burch was still chasing after the lab. Van Dyne soon found Starr and attempted to take back the lab and fight her. Lang went to help, leaving Luis behind as he jumped on the front of the truck.
 ]]
Lang's suit began to malfunction again causing him to grow big. He then punched Starr in the face, breaking her mask and allowing van Dyne to take back the lab. Lang attempted to stop the truck, which he was successful. He then used the truck to make his way through the streets and reach Burch. Lang and van Dyne then went to help Luis, with Wasp taking out the goons and Lang going for the lab.
 ]] 
Lang, who was still in giant form, crashed Burch's car and then began to chase him on foot, but was not able to catch him due to his size. Burch then made his way onto a ferry and Lang attempted to follow him by calling in an ant, but they kept getting eaten by a seagull. He was able to get further with one ant, but it also got eaten, causing him to fall into the water. He then grew big again and swam after the ferry. He then emerged from the water and grabbed the lab from Burch.
 ]]
Due to him being too big for too long, Lang started to lose consciousness as he attempted to return to the lab so they could enlarge it so Pym could get out of the Quantum Realm with Janet van Dyne. He was able to put the lab on the ground as Wasp and Luis arrived. Van Dyne realized that Lang was losing consciousness and went to save him as he fell into the water. She swam towards him and repaired the regulator, causing him to shrink, allowing her to save him. She took Lang to the surface where he grew back to normal size. He regained consciousness and the two kissed.
 arrive to stop the Ghost]]
Ant-Man and the Wasp showed up and disabled Bill Foster's machine, giving Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne enough time to come out of the Quantum Realm. Van Dyne reunites with her mother at last. Janet then sees Starr's problem, and she puts her hands on Starr to stabilize her and stop her phasing. Everyone left as they took the Mobile Laboratory. 

#### Free Man Again

 
 
Back home, Lang played on his drum set to pass time until Jimmy Woo, again, came to see if he broke house arrest again. When Woo arrives, Lang playfully asked if he was there to tell him his three days were up. Without any evidence to prove he broke house arrest, Woo was forced to remove the Ankle Monitor. As Woo left, he threatened to see Lang again; however, Lang turned the threat into a joke by asking when.
 ]]
Now free, the first thing Lang did was go see Cassie. He was warmly welcomed not only by Cassie, who was happy to see her father free but Maggie Lang and Jim Paxton as well. Meanwhile, X-Con Security Consultants obtained new clients; after Luis, Dave and Kurt took down Burch, the new clients keep their business from going under. Lang, van Dyne, and Cassie spend time together in a shrunken car, with a laptop set up akin to an old drive-in theater. 

#### Trapped in the Quantum Realm

 ]]
 
Sometime soon afterwards, Lang arrived at an empty rooftop in Luis' Van with a portable Quantum Tunnel for van Dyne and family. Their objective was to extract energy from the Quantum Realm to be able to continue curing Ava Starr's affliction. Janet warned Lang to steer clear from the carnivorous tardigrades, as well as to not get sucked by a time vortex, because it would be difficult to get him out.
 ]]
Lang went subatomic, harvested the needed energy, and then waited for van Dyne to finish the countdown to return him to the regular world. Suddenly, her comm went static. Thinking they were playing a joke on him, Lang laughed it off. However, when it became apparent they weren't on the other end, he panicked and called out to them frantically. 

### Joining the Avengers

#### Escape from the Quantum Realm

 ]]
 
Lang remained trapped in the Quantum Realm for five hours until he was freed by a that walked across the van's hood and accidentally activated its control panel. Finally out of the realm at last, Lang found himself trapped in a storage room and saw that Hope van Dyne, Hank Pym, and Janet van Dyne were nowhere to be seen.
 ]]
Confused by his surroundings, Lang then asked Hope where she was. He then called for help on a security camera and a security guard saw him and let him go with some of his belongings. Lang escaped the storage room along with some of his belongings, which he took in a wagon with him.
 ]]
Lang then went around exploring the neighborhoods of San Francisco, seeing most of it looking post-apocalyptic. While looking around, Lang spotted a boy riding a bicycle and asked him what had happened, but the boy simply ignored him and kept on riding his bike.
 ]]
Lang soon made his way to the city's Wall of the Vanished and discovered that many people had vanished and had their names etched on the memorial. Fearing that his daughter's name was on there, Lang went and looked on the plaques hoping not to find her name. Much to his relief, he didn't find her name etched on any of the plaques but instead found his own along with Hope and her parents' names, much to his shock and confusion.
 ]]
Lang ran to his ex wife's house and knocked on the door and rang the doorbell repeatedly. When his daughter answered the door, Lang was relieved to find that she was alive, but was surprised that she was now a teenager. She was relieved to find her father alive as she had believed he was dead. The two reunited in a tearful, joyful reunion and hug while Lang had commented on how big she had gotten. 

After his escape, Lang spent many nights crying himself to sleep due to all of the time he had lost with his daughter. He also began experiencing survivor's guilt, questioning why he was spared when so many others were not. 

#### Discussing the Quantum Realm

 ]]
 
After overcoming his survivor's guilt and thinking about his time in the Quantum Realm, Lang drove from San Francisco to the Avengers Compound in New York in Luis' Van. Arriving at the Compound's entrance, Lang called up at the security camera, helpfully reminding anyone watching that they fought together back a few years ago in Germany; he asked them to let him in and that he really needed to talk to them. Lang was then let inside, and he reunited with Steve Rogers and Natasha Romanoff, who were shocked he was alive and wondered if he was okay. 
 ]]
Once inside the Avengers Compound Lang had Rogers and Romanoff explain what he'd missed, and heavy hearts they explained the events of the Infinity War and its aftermath. Afterwards, a frazzled Lang then asked if either Rogers or Romanoff had ever studied Quantum Physics to which Romanoff said she was, only for conversation; so she had a basic grasp of the concept. He then told them about how he got trapped in the Quantum Realm five years ago due to the Snap, making them wonder how he maintained his sanity that long. However, Lang surprised them by explaining that for him, it was actually five hours; hence why he was the same age as he was back in 2018.
 
While speaking, Lang noticed a sandwich on the table and rushed to eat it since he was hungry. Rogers then tried to get Lang to clarify what he was saying, so he explained that time worked differently in the Quantum Realm, but there was no way to navigate it. Lang proposed the idea to control the Quantum Realm, entering at one point in time and then exiting at another point in time, to find a way to undo the damage.
 
Rogers then asked Lang if he was talking about a time machine, to which Lang said he wasn't and that it was something else, but suddenly realized he was talking about a time machine. He told them that he can't stop thinking about it and that it's crazy. However, Romanoff informed him that she gets emails from a raccoon and that nothing sounded crazy anymore. Lang then asked who they should talk to about this. 

#### Asking For Assistance

 at his home]]
 
Joining Steve Rogers and Natasha Romanoff, Lang headed off to find Tony Stark, who was living a simple life with his family. Once they had arrived at his home, Lang proposed their idea of traveling back in time to collect the Infinity Stones before Thanos got them and snap their own fingers to bring back everyone who perished in 2018.
 with Tony Stark]]
Stark disagreed with the group's decision to use Quantum energy to mess with time, thinking they'll never be coming back to their original timeline or that it may erase his daughter and the new life he found from existence. Once Lang told Stark that he came back from the past, he told Lang that his case was a billion in one chances of a cosmic fluke, thus it could not happen, being told that the group was pulling a Time Heist.
 to help them out]]
Stark continued to tell the group that it was a pipe dream. When Lang sat down with Stark, he told him that they would follow strict rules of time travel, but Stark rejected his proposal with concern about following logic from . Despite Lang urging Stark to help them try to bring everyone back, Stark still refused, leaving Lang, Rogers, and Romanoff to find someone else with a really big brain, bigger than Stark's. While Lang was disappointed by Stark's refusal, he empathized will Stark's fear of losing his daughter. 
 ]]
The three then called Bruce Banner to meet with them at a diner. However, to Lang's astonishment and great confusion, Banner was now in complete control of his Hulk alter ego; while physically the Hulk, Banner retained control. Banner laughed off Lang's confusion with the fact that he was now wearing shirts as the Hulk. Lang, still overwhelmed by Hulk speaking and eating like a human, required further explanation.
 's explanation]]
Banner revealed his guilt about losing twice to Thanos; first as Hulk, then as Banner, and because of that, the Snap happened. He further explained to Lang that after eighteen months in a Gamma Lab, he was able to merge his mind and Hulk's body into one being. At that moment, some kids wanted to take a picture with Banner, so he asked Lang to take the picture, to which he obliged.
 
After he took the photo, Lang asked the kids if they wanted to take a picture with him since he was also a superhero, but quickly changed his mind as he believed they were just Hulk fans and didn't know who he was. He asked Banner to take the phone and even let out a swear as the kids left. Returning to the topic of time travel, Banner said that it was out of his expertise but agreed to do a few tries. 

#### Testing Time Travel

 in Luis' Van]]
 
The four returned to the Avengers Compound, where they began working on navigating the Quantum Realm to ensure time travel. Lang put on the Quantum Realm Exploration Suit and waited to be sent through time. When Bruce Banner mentioned not wanting something to go wrong and have Lang stuck in the 1950s, Natasha Romanoff said he was kidding. Banner then told Lang that he would send him back a week and then bring him back in ten seconds to which Lang said was perfectly not confusing.
 
Steve Rogers then wished Lang good luck, as they commenced the experiment, and he was sent into the Quantum Realm. Instead of Banner sending Lang through time, he ended up sending time through Lang as he returned as a twelve-year-old, an elderly man, and a baby. Lang was brought back to his normal self when Romanoff killed the power. Returned to his normal form, Lang stated that someone had peed in his pants and he wasn't sure if it was baby him or old him, or just him. Lang would later reflect on this experience in his memoir, stating that while it was brief, it gave him some perspective on things. 
 and Nebula]]
After their failed experiment, Stark had arrived at the Compound having found a way to perform time travel successfully. Lang later went outside to have some tacos for lunch. When he was about to eat his lunch, Lang's taco was destroyed when the Benatar landed on the lawn. Lang then saw Rocket and Nebula exiting, and when Rocket asked where Banner was, Lang responded that he was in the kitchen.
 ]]
As Nebula walked past him, Lang stated that she looked awesome before she notified James Rhodes that Lang was in the landing zone, calling him an "idiot". Rhodes then landed very close to Lang, which startled him. He then teased Lang by calling him "Regular Size Man" before entering the facility. Seeing this Lang lose his lunch, Banner decided to give him some of his own tacos before flying off. 

#### Testing the Time Suit

 ]]
 
Once all of the Avengers were assembled, they began working on the method in order to travel through the Quantum Realm. Lang was being fitted into the Time Suit by Bruce Banner and Nebula, and when Banner tried to put a Pym Particle into the suit, Lang started to get unnerved and reminded him that since Hank Pym was gone, they only had limited Pym Particle and they weren't making anymore. However, Lang accidentally triggered the suit, and he shrunk and said he was not ready for the test.
 ]]
Clint Barton volunteered to do the test run, so Lang gave him the suit to wear. Lang witnessed James Rhodes suggest killing Thanos as a baby, which Banner said couldn't work. However, Lang supported Rhodes' idea by stating that they go back in time and get the Infinity Stones before Thanos. Nebula stated that that's not how time travel works. Lang and Rhodes then listed an array of films that featured time travel. However, Banner explained that when traveling back in time, changing the past does not change the future. Surprised and confused, Lang stated that was a bunch of nonsense.
 was a success]]
They all then went to the hangar to watch the test, with Barton being the first to travel through time in a controlled manner. They all stood together as Barton stood on the platform of the Quantum Tunnel while Banner prepared to send him into the past. Barton soon returned, and Lang witnessed as Barton threw Tony Stark a mitt that he had acquired from the past after successfully time-traveling. 

### Time Heist

#### Locating the Infinity Stones

 ]]
 
With the means of time travel accounted for, the team brainstormed when and where they could retrieve the Infinity Stones from, addressing that they need to be specific where they travel to, as the stones have all crossed paths with all of them except Lang. They decided to brief themselves on each stone and the history of where they've been.
 talk about the Aether]]
Lang gleefully listened to Thor while he told them about the Aether and how his ex-girlfriend got it stuck inside her body and that he had to take her to Asgard, which was where he was from. However, Thor began to get off-topic due to not coming to terms with some of the trauma in his life, including his mother's death.
 ]]
That night as they all had dinner, Rocket informed the team about the Power Stone and how Peter Quill stole it from Morag, to which Lang was amazed about the prospect of space. Rocket began to tease Lang by patting him on the head and calling him a puppy, mockingly saying that he would take Lang to space.
 talk about Vormir]]
Next, Nebula informed them on the Soul Stone and how Thanos killed her sister on Vormir, making Lang say out loud that he would not be going to that planet. By the third day, the Avengers had finished their brainstorming of the Infinity Stones and planned when and where they would travel to, to get all six stones. They then split the Avengers into small teams, each responsible for a different stone.
 complete their plan]]
They assigned three teams: Tony Stark, Steve Rogers, Bruce Banner and Lang going to 2012 to get the Space, Mind, and Time Stones, Thor and Rocket going to 2013 to get the Reality Stone, and Clint Barton, Natasha Romanoff, James Rhodes, and Nebula going to 2014 to get the Soul and Power Stones. However, they only had enough Pym Particles to send them back in time and back to the present, meaning that this was their only chance.
 ]]
The Avengers all then suited up in their Time Suits and made their way to the platform of the Quantum Tunnel, where Rogers gave them a speech about everything that had led up to that moment and that this was their only chance to change what had happened. Lang shared with Rocket's surprise on how good Rogers was at giving them a motivational speech. Banner then activated the machine and they were all transported to the Quantum Realm, where they each traveled to their designated time. 

#### Theft of the Space Stone

 New York City]]
 
Upon arriving in an alternate 2012 timeline, Steve Rogers informed them that they all knew their positions on where the Infinity Stones were. While Bruce Banner left for the Time Stone, Tony Stark, Rogers, and Lang went to Stark Tower to retrieve the Tesseract and the Scepter.
 arresting Loki]]
Arriving at Stark Tower, Lang rode on Stark's shoulder as they quietly infiltrated the building to obtain the Tesseract. While Stark and Lang watched the alternate versions of the Avengers arresting an alternate Loki, Stark radioed to Rogers about his alternate self's buttocks being crapped into his former uniform, to which Lang complimented that it was "America's ass."
 about STRIKE]]
Subsequently, STRIKE arrived to confiscate the Scepter, leaving Stark and Lang to hide out of sight. Lang asked who they were to which Stark informed him that the two lead agents, Jasper Sitwell and Brock Rumlow, were both Hydra agents infiltrating S.H.I.E.L.D., but didn't know it at the time, much to Lang's shock as he claimed that they looked like bad guys before being quieted by Stark. Stark then flicked Lang onto his alternate self in order to get closer to the Tesseract.
 Tony Stark]]
Lang quietly hid onto the alternate Stark, who was transporting the Tesseract, along with STRIKE and the Avengers while Stark departed from the building in the Iron Man Armor: Mark LXXXV and stole a S.H.I.E.L.D. uniform to disguise himself.
 Stark]]
Under Stark's orders, Lang went under alternate Stark's shirt, where he smelled Axe body spray, having Stark to explain he had one under a desk for emergencies. While the alternate versions of Stark and Thor argued with an alternate Alexander Pierce, Stark instructed Lang to shut off the alternate Stark's Arc Reactor to give him a cardiac arrest as a distraction.
 Stark's Arc Reactor]]
Lang then damaged it, causing alternate Stark to suffer a heart attack. While alternate Stark had suffered pain from his heart, Lang kicked the case containing the Tesseract to Stark, his actions being noticed by alternate Loki. Unfortunately, just before Stark made it out of the Tower, he was struck by alternate Hulk, sending both Stark and the Tesseract flying.
 's Arc Reactor]]
Loki used the opportunity to steal the Tesseract and escape captivity, ruining Lang and Stark's mission. Lang then jumped onto Stark and told him that that part of the plan wasn't supposed to happen, leading him to tell Lang that they messed up the plan. Lang and Stark then met back up with Rogers in the alley, who had been successful in retrieving the Scepter.
 failures]]
Upon meeting with Rogers, Lang complained that the Time Heist was a complete failure with their blunder of the Tesseract. Lang lectured the group that they only had enough Pym Particles for one journey home and won't be coming back. However, Stark suddenly had an idea and suggested going further back in time to a place where both the Tesseract and more Pym Particles were in the same place. Lang listened while Stark and Rogers discussed where to go to seek the Tesseract.
 by Steve Rogers]]
Rogers then instructed Lang to take the Scepter back to the Avengers Compound while he and Stark went to an alternate 1970. Before they departed, Lang informed them that if they fail again at getting the Tesseract, they won't be coming home, to which Stark thanked him and teased him by calling him "piss ant." Lang then travelled the Quantum Realm back to the main universe and learned that Natasha Romanoff sacrificed herself so Clint Barton could obtain the Soul Stone. 

#### Blip

 discuss Nano Gauntlet]]
 
After Tony Stark, Rocket, and Bruce Banner constructed the Nano Gauntlet, Lang was present when Thor offered to use the gauntlet as he believed he was the strongest Avenger, and along with all the other Avengers, refused to let him because he was in no condition.
 's Snap]]
However, Banner came up with the realization that he was made to do it as the radiation from the Infinity Stones was mostly gamma, giving him the highest chance to survive the full force of the stones and warned his teammates that because of the gamma radiation, the gauntlet could kill anyone who tried to wear it. Lang made sure to lock on his mask as the rest of the Compound was locked down.
 
Banner put on the gauntlet, and though he became overwhelmed by its power, he still managed to snap his fingers. As everyone checked on Banner, Lang walked out of the room and looked at the inner garden and saw a flock of appear out of nowhere.
 worked]]
Lang was amazed by the sight and told everyone that he believed the Blip had worked. At that moment, the Compound was bombed by an alternate Thanos and his warship. As the missiles obliterated the Compound, Lang shrunk down to survive. 

#### Attacked by Thanos

 
 
After the initial attack, Lang, in his shrunken size, found himself under some rubble. As he got up, he received a distress signal from James Rhodes saying they were drowning on the lower level. He attempted to respond to them but their connection got cut.
 
As Lang moved down to the lower level, he found Rhodes, Bruce Banner, and Rocket all about to drown. He managed to save them by growing to his gigantic size and carrying them out of the Compound, allowing Rhodes to retrieve a new suit in the process and the heroes to join the battle. 
 

#### Battle of Earth

 ]]
 
Lang then stood alongside all the assembled heroes as Steve Rogers led the charge against an alternate Thanos and his alien army. In his giant size, Lang was able to punch a Leviathan out of the sky and onto the ground. He then assisted Spider-Man by crushing Cull Obsidian to death with his enlarged foot.
 ]]
When Rogers realized that the Infinity Stones were in danger, he requested for Clint Barton to take the Nano Gauntlet as far away as possible. Bruce Banner interjected, as the Stones needed to be returned to the past. However, Tony Stark informed them that their Quantum Tunnel had been destroyed. Shrinking back to normal size, Lang then informed them that they could use Luis' van, which contained a smaller Quantum Tunnel and called on the horn to the van.
 in battle]]
He was then found by Hope van Dyne, who smiled at him, as Stark asked him how long he needed to get the van working, to which he said ten minutes. Rogers informed them that they would bring the Stones to them, and they then shrunk down while van Dyne carried him over to the van.
 into a portal]]
The two arrived at the van but found that the battery had died and that it had no power, prompting him to hotwire the van. Lang then returned to the battle, becoming Giant-Man once more and forcing a Leviathan through a portal created by the Masters of the Mystic Arts. Lang then shrunk back to his normal size and returned to the van to activate the Quantum Tunnel.
 ]]
When Carol Danvers arrived and was tasked with returning the Stones, Lang turned the power on to the van so she could transport them through the Quantum Tunnel. However, alternate Thanos managed to destroy the van and Tunnel with his sword.
 's sacrifice]]
With no other alternatives, Iron Man took it upon himself to take the Stones and use them to wipe out alternate Thanos and his army, at the cost of his life. While Lang was proud that his crackpot idea of a Time Heist ultimately led to the savior of the world, he was deeply saddened by Stark's sacrifice as he knew that Stark had given up a life with his daughter to save the world. Following Barton, everyone, including Lang, knelt out of respect for his sacrifice. 
 

#### Aftermath

 and Cassie Lang]]
Afterwards, Lang and van Dyne returned to Jim Paxton's House and spent some quality time with his daughter. The three sat outside on the front steps together while watching the fireworks going off to celebrate the return of people in the Blip.
 's funeral]]
A week later, Lang attended Tony Stark's funeral with van Dyne and her restored parents, Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne at Stark's home. The four stood together, along with several other heroes and allies, as they watched Pepper Potts and her daughter put Stark's Arc Reactor in the lake. 

### Recognized Hero

#### Friendship with the Avengers

 
Following the Battle of Earth, Lang struck up a friendship with various Avengers and other superheroes, including Clint Barton, whom Lang gave vials of Pym Particles to use in his trick arrows. Lang also made attempts to befriend Doctor Strange, asking him about his 14,000,605 possible pasts, but Strange refused and did not reciprocate the attempts at friendship. Despite this, Strange, alongside Sam Wilson and Bruce Banner, would write positive reviews for Lang's memoir, Look Out for the Little Guy!, when it released in 2025. Lang would also repeatedly ask Barton if he wanted to "go out shootin'", try and impress Thor by learning Norwegian, and show off his magic to Wanda Maximoff, although she was not impressed. 

#### Public Approval

 and merchandise at AvengerCon]]
 
Despite Lang's lack of popularity amongst fans of the Avengers initially, he grew to become a respected and beloved member of the team by 2024, with merchandise being sold with his name on it, such as a hat suggesting he, along with Bruce Banner, Tony Stark, and Thor, were the strongest Avengers, being recognized by fans of the team and even being included as a founding member within Rogers: The Musical, despite having not actually been involved in the Battle of New York. In 2025, he was given an exhibit at the New Jersey AvengerCon, with life-size models of him, including a recreation of his becoming giant during the Chase for the Mobile Laboratory. Additionally, artwork depicting Lang in his suit was painted on a train station in Karachi, Pakistan. Lang had become so popular that he was one of the most searched topics on the internet. 
 
This newfound popularity also came with a few perks for Lang. In addition to being recognized on the street and being asked for pictures, Lang would have things paid for by fans, including one time when he went to lunch with Jimmy Woo, and frequently by Ruben, who mistook him for Spider-Man. Lang was also awarded "Employee of the Century" at Baskin-Robbins by Dale. Lang's relationship with Hope van Dyne continued to grow stronger, with her even becoming a mother-figure to his daughter. 

#### Guest-Starring on Podcasts

 
In 2024, Lang was invited as an interviewee on a number of podcasts, including This Powered Life in an episode titled Big Me Little Me: A Scott Lang Interview, to speak about his recent experiences with the Avengers, such as the Battle of Earth. Fans of the Avengers such as Kamala Khan would closely follow his accounts to learn more about the team. 

#### Writing a Book

 ]]
 
In 2024, after inviting Lang to lunch, Clint Barton and Bruce Banner nominated Lang to write an official account of the battle against Thanos, wanting to help clear up the confusion brought onto the public following the Blip, seeing Lang as the best candidate, due to him being a newer superhero and still living a normal family life. Lang accepted and chose to turn the book into a memoir titled Look Out for the Little Guy!, detailing his journey as a superhero, which he later published in 2025. In addition to Lang's perspective on super heroics, the book featured a chapter dedicated to Natasha Romanoff, with Steve Rogers and Barton reflect on their time with Romanoff. He also interviewed Hope van Dyne for her perspective on his betrayal, and Hank Pym for the potential applications of Pym Particles. 

#### Retrospective with Luis

During the writing of his memoir, Lang asked his best friend Luis to breakdown what would have happened in his life if he took a less flashy approach to the VistaCorp job, leading to him not being arrested. Luis came to the conclusion that it would spell disaster for the world, not only because he would never become Ant-Man and help bring about the Blip, but also because they would have never become friends. Lang then asked Luis what he would have happened he was honest with Maggie about his plans to rob VistaCorp. Luis said that she would have burned fingertips, making him unable to type, therefore making it impossible for him to hack into the company's servers. 

#### Family Dinner

 what to do]]
 
On July 24, 2026, Lang attended a book signing at City Lights Bookstore, where he read his book to a crowded room of fans. The event was interrupted when Lang was contacted by the San Francisco Police Department, who informed him that Cassie was in jail. Lang left the bookstore and met Hope van Dyne at the station to pick up Cassie, discovering that she had shrunk a police car while trying to help a Blip-displaced homeless camp. As they drove, Lang voiced his disapproval of Cassie's actions, even though he understood he desire to help those in need, as he just wanted her to have a normal life.
 's secret]]
They arrived at Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne's house for dinner, where Lang discovered that Cassie had briefly been in jail once already. This made Lang want to address his daughter's desire to help others, claiming that he didn't want her wasting her life. She then responded by accusing him of no longer doing anything with his, so Lang brought up how he saved the world, causing everyone to tease him about how much he brings that up. Lang then learned that Cassie had been working with Pym and Hope, so they decided to fill him in.
 's invention]]
They all went down to Pym's lab, where Lang noticed an ant farm filled with smart ants building their own tech. Cassie then presented the Quantum Satellite that she had built with Pym and Hope's help, commenting that its scanning capabilities could have helped her find Lang when he was trapped in the Quantum Realm for five years. Lang was impressed with his daughter, but when Janet discovered that it sends a signal down to the Quantum Realm, she shut it down, much to everyone's confusion. 

### Adventure in the Quantum Realm

#### Meeting the Freedom Fighters

 ]]
 
Before Janet van Dyne could explain herself, a portal opened up and began pulling them all in. Lang tried to hold onto his daughter, but she, along with the rest of the family, got sucked in, so Lang, without hesitation dove in after her. As Lang fell, he put on his Ant-Man Suit and caught Cassie in his giant form before they hit the ground. They then looked around and realized they were in the Quantum Realm.
 's camp]]
Lang tried to comfort his daughter that they were going to be fine, but they were then attacked by two creatures. They were rescued by a group of rogue Quantum Realm inhabitants, who then captured them and brought them to their camp, where they were forced to drink the Ooze, which allowed them to understand the people. Lang was questioned by Veb and Quaz, who suspected them of being spies, so they explained where they were from and how they got in the Quantum Realm.
 's history]]
Jentorra arrived and warned them about Kang the Conqueror, so Quaz read their minds and found that they knew nothing about him or anything to do with their situation. Lang told Jentorra that he was just wanting to get back home, and she responded by revealing that their homes had been destroyed because of Kang. Cassie told Jentorra that they could help, so Lang spoke to his daughter in private, telling her that they needed to focus on getting back home, which disappointed Cassie, who accused him of not caring. When Lang mentioned Janet, Jentorra ordered Lang and Cassie to be taken away as Kang would be after them. 

#### Attacked by M.O.D.O.K.

 on how to fight]]
 
The camp was then ambushed, so Lang ran away from danger with his daughter. While hiding, Lang saw Jentorra being attacked, so he went to help her, but saw that Cassie had already left his side, put her own suit on and was fighting the enemies. However, she wasn't able to defeat them all, so Lang rushed in to save her, giving her tips on how to fight when small.
 ]]
As the Freedom Fighters were being captured and taken away, Lang and Cassie were targeted by an unknown attacker, who managed to corner them, and welcomed Lang back to the Quantum Realm, saying that their fates were forged together. Lang soon realized that the attacker was Darren Cross, who had become a giant head and was now going by M.O.D.O.K. Lang was surprised and confused to see M.O.D.O.K., but when he called him Darren, M.O.D.O.K. fired a blast at them, incapacitating Lang and Cassie, who were then taken as prisoners. 

#### Meeting Kang the Conqueror

 's past]]
 
As they sat in their cells, Lang tried to lighten the mood by comparing how many times they had both been in jail, with this being his fourth time. They were then joined by M.O.D.O.K., who explained what had happened to him when he entered the Quantum Realm. Lang interrupted the story after realized his name was an acronym and teased him about his tiny legs. M.O.D.O.K. yelled at Lang for ruining his life, and claimed that he was now free.
 ]]
Kang the Conqueror then arrived, and Lang told him that he was making a mistake, lying about calling the Avengers for backup. However, Kang calmly asked if he had killed Lang, saying that he had killed Avengers before. Kang then commented that both of them had lost a lot of time in their lives, and began to make his offer for them to help each other, bringing up Lang's skills as a thief. Kang revealed that Janet van Dyne stole his means of escape, and he needed Lang to steal it back for him so that he could stop what was coming, which was more of him.
 ]]
Kang reiterated that he was Lang's only chance of getting out of the Quantum Realm, but he refused to help. Immediately, Kang used his powers to force Lang against the cell barrier as he told him that his refusal would result in him having to witness Cassie being killed, and then reliving the moment until he would beg for his own death. Lang continued to hold out, even as Kang began tightening his suit around his body, but it was when Kang began to hurt Cassie that he gave in and reluctantly agreed to help him. Lang was released from his cell, and he stared down Kang, telling him to never touch Cassie again, only to be told by Kang that it depended on whether he completed the mission. 

#### Theft of the Multiversal Engine Core

 ]]
 
Kang the Conqueror opened a portal, and he showed Lang to the Multiversal Engine Core, and he was instructed by M.O.D.O.K. to shrink it back down to size, as well as warning him not to stay in the Core too long as it would damage his mind. Cassie Lang got free to hug her father and apologize for messing up. However, Lang comforted his daughter by saying that she was the only thing in his life he didn't mess up was her. Lang secretly gave Cassie a shrink and grow disc and dove into the Core.
 
Once he reached the Core, Ant-Man went to shrink it, but a duplicate of himself manifested in front of him. M.O.D.O.K. explained that he was currently in a probability storm, meaning that the duplicate was just a possibility of another him as every choice that he could ever make existed all at once. At that moment, countless more duplicates manifested, all confused about their situation, including a duplicate of him that still worked at Baskin-Robbins. Ant-Man then witnessed one of his duplicates charge at the Core in giant form, only to instantly die.
 ]]
Ant-Man and all of the duplicates panicked and ran away. As more duplicates were manifested, Ant-Man was soon drowned underneath them all. But, hearing his daughter call out to him focused Ant-Man, and his duplicates all began working together to pull him upwards to the Core, now all united with a common goal to get back to Cassie. Ant-Man managed to climb to the top of the mountain made of his duplicates, but when he fired a shrink disc, it failed to reduce the size of the Core. The mountain then toppled over, and Ant-Man fell, but he was saved by Wasp. The two managed to remove all of their duplicates, and together they successfully shrunk the core.
 trying to attack Kang]]
Ant-Man and Wasp fell to the ground, and when they got up, Wasp tried to get them to leave, but he revealed that Kang had Cassie as prisoner. Janet van Dyne joined them and insisted that they leave, assuring Ant-Man that they would rescue Cassie. Kang then arrived, and demanded the core be handed over. Ant-Man demanded that his daughter be freed, as per their deal, but Kang decided to betray them and he stole the Core. Ant-Man and Wasp went to attack him, but he flicked them away with ease, knocking them out. 

#### Uprising in Axia

 learn of the Ants]]
 
They woke up and were found by Hank Pym, along with giant Ants that had advanced themselves during their time in the Quantum Realm. The three were determined to rescue Cassie Lang and Janet van Dyne from Kang the Conqueror, and they were supplied with a strategy from the ants. Lang also learnt that Pym had read his book.
 ]]
While flying in a ship, they watched Kang's message be interrupted by Cassie, who gave a speech to motivate the citizens of Axia to fight back against Kang. They were able to track the signal from Cassie's message, so they rushed to rescue her and Janet. They arrived at Axia, so Ant-Man and Wasp flew out of the ship and they made their approach to the city, with Ant-Man turning into Giant-Man and Wasp standing on his shoulder. As Giant-Man began destroying the Celestium, he called out Kang for going against their deal. A fleet of ships began attacking, so Giant-Man tried to fight them off but there were too many.
 hug in giant form]]
Fortunately, Cassie's speech worked and the Freedom Fighters came to their rescue. Giant-Man once again called out Kang, only to witness him commence his escape from the Quantum Realm. Giant-Man rushed to stop Kang, but was only able to briefly penetrate the Celestium's shield. He then came up with an idea for Wasp to throw him at the shield when shrunken down and then turn back into Giant-Man before impact, which worked. With the shield down, Giant-Man was reunited with his daughter, who was also in giant form.
 and Stature]]
They both returned to normal size and were joined by Wasp. The three then headed to the Celestium where Kang was slaughtering many of the Freedom Fighters. Ant-Man, Wasp and Stature attacked Kang together, but weren't able to do much damage, even when Ant-Man turned into giant form and repeatedly hit Kang. As the three recovered, Kang ranted about how powerful he was compared to them, remarking that they only talked to ants. The smart ants arrived, led by Pym, and alongside M.O.D.O.K., they overwhelmed and defeated Kang. 

#### Defeating Kang the Conqueror

 die]]
 
With Kang the Conqueror gone, they went to a dying M.O.D.O.K.'s side, and Ant-Man stood their awkwardly as M.O.D.O.K. called him a brother. Once M.O.D.O.K. finally passed, Janet van Dyne told them that she had opened a portal for them to escape through, so they rushed up to the tower.
 ]]
Janet, Hank Pym and Wasp went through the portal, but Ant-Man spotted Kang running towards them, so he instinctively pushed his daughter through the portal to save her. Now just Ant-Man and Kang remaining in the Quantum Realm, Kang made a run for the portal, so Ant-Man tackled him. The two then began to brawl, with Kang immediately overpowering him, and viciously stomping on his helmet. Ant-Man got himself back up and tried to fight back, only to be brutally beaten to the ground repeatedly.
 kill Kang the Conqueror]]
As Kang continued to beat up Ant-Man, he told him that he could have gone home had he just looked the other way, but now he had no chance of winning. While being pushed against the Multiversal Engine Core, Ant-Man responded that he didn't have to win, so long as they both lost, and he slammed a bunch of Pym Particle Discs on the Core, destabilizing it. Kang rushed towards the portal, but was blasted away by Wasp who came back through. Ant-Man and Wasp then worked together to knock Kang into the Core, killing him and causing the core to explode.
 embracing each other]]
In a great deal of pain, Ant-Man asked Wasp if his daughter was safe, and she told him that she made it safely back home. The two then hugged, which hurt Ant-Man, but when Wasp went to let go, he emotionally told her not to. Ant-Man expressed how touched he was that Wasp came back for him, and the partners embraced each other by resting their heads on one another. Ant-Man told Wasp he loved her, and she reciprocated. They then heard cheering outside, so they looked upon the citizens celebrating their freedom. A portal then opened up, allowing Ant-Man and Wasp to return home. 

#### Back to Normal

 ]]
 
Now that their family was reunited and the threat of Kang the Conqueror dealt with, everyone returned to their normal lives, with Lang reflecting on the recent events and how his life didn't make much sense. After picking up a cake from Baskin-Robbins, Lang began to worry whether they had in fact defeated Kang, and if so, did that mean something worse was coming. However, Lang chose to stop thinking about it.
 
Because he missed a few years of Cassie Lang growing up due to the Snap, Lang decided to hold a fake birthday party for her at a restaurant with Hope van Dyne, Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne attending. Cassie remarked on how it wasn't actually her birthday, but Lang told her that he wanted to make up for the time that he had missed with her. As Lang happily looked upon his family all together, he assured himself that he had definitely seen that last of Kang and that everything would be fine. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
*Ant-Man Suit Capabilities: In need of a new Ant-Man for his heist, Hank Pym tricked Lang into breaking into Pym's house and stealing the Ant-Man Suit. After some practicing, Lang became very good with the technology and used it to complete the heist. He then kept the suit.
**Size Manipulation: Using technology developed by Hank Pym, Lang is able to reduce himself to approximately the size of an ant, though he can also grow his body to gigantic sizes. He still maintains his regular-sized strength and resilience when shrinking; while in reduced scale, this translates to granting him inhuman effort and exertion capabilities. Also, obtaining momentum and kinetic energy in small scale and exerting it immediately while returning to or right after returning to normal size can result in a feat of superhuman effort and exertion, and therefore, momentarily give Lang enhanced strength while in regular size, enough to send a man flying while attacking and enlarging himself at the same time. The process of altering size compresses force and energy, manifesting as brief shockwaves of vibration around the target that charge the target with momentum. Initially, Lang could not maintain his giant transformation for extended periods time, as it causes some heavy stress on his body and if done long enough he can even faint. However, Lang seemed to be getting used to it the more times he does it, and instead of fainting he only gets very exhausted; by the time of Battle of Earth, Lang remained most of the conflict in giant form without fainting, exhausting, or showing any major drawback.
***Superhuman Strength: ]] While wearing the Ant-Man Suit in its miniature form, Lang possesses superhuman strength due to his increased density, effort, and exertion, enabling him to take out multiple opponents of normal human size while shrunk. He can also use the physical force and momentum attained from changing size to simulate superhuman strength directly after returning to normal size. This strength also extends to legs, allowing him to jump, spring, and leap across with great force. This allows him to move through the air like a bullet to strike and impact opponents and incapacitate them instantly or move halfway across a room in a single bound. However, exerting too much force into impacts and physical attacks can accidentally kill an opponent, due to the force of attacks being comparable to that of a bullet. The process of altering size compresses force and energy, manifesting as brief shockwaves of vibration around Lang that charge the target with enough momentum that can briefly enhance the target's strength while enlarging or immediately after enlarging. In his enlarged form, Lang's strength enables him to crush huge vehicles, tear a passenger plane apart, punch a Leviathan into the ground, crush Cull Obsidian by stomping him into the ground, killing him.
***Superhuman Durability: ]] While wearing the Ant-Man Suit in its miniature form, Lang's increased density also affords him superhuman durability, retaining the resilience of a human of regular size. This notably allows him to withstand impacts that would easily stun or even kill a normal human, enough to him to fall from great heights and crash onto a surface with the force of a bullet, leaving a bullet hole like a crater in the surface while he remains unharmed. When he has increased his size into a giant-sized man, he naturally becomes far tougher and more durable than normal. This is due to his increased density and muscle mass, and it was enough to withstand missiles from War Machine. However, this enormous amount of durability comes at the cost of his speed and balance, making his movements somewhat clumsy as a result.
**Insect Manipulation: Lang, through the use of the EMP Communication Device within the suit's helmet and the earpieces given to him by Hank Pym, can affect the pheromones of insect-sized organisms and stimulate their olfactory nerve centers, allowing him a rudimentary form of control over ants. He can direct their actions and behavior at will to cause them to work together, such as by forming themselves into bridges or walkways, allowing themselves to be used as mounts, or attacking a target, usually in swarms as a distraction for the user.

### Abilities

 
 
*Master Thief: ]] Lang was highly trained in theft, specializing in breaking into homes or facilities and other places to steal, even some of the most advanced facilities in the world like VistaCorp Headquarters, Avengers Compound and Pym Technologies Headquarters. He has shown to break into VistaCorp Headquarters, Geoff Zorick's Mansion, Pym Residence, Avengers Compound, Pym Technologies Headquarters, University of California, Berkeley, Brookemont Elementary School and Ghost's Hideout. He is also highly skilled in utilizing chemistry when opening locked safes and bypassing security systems.
 
*Expert Martial Artist: ]] Initially, Lang had limited fighting skills as he avoided confrontations during his heists. Hope van Dyne trained him and he slowly became a highly skilled fighter. His fighting style includes , , and . His skills, combined with the Ant-Man Suit, and shrinking powers, allowed him to defeat armed security personnel and keep with both Falcon and Black Widow in his respective duels with them, despite her being a supremely skilled hand-to-hand combatant and martial artist. Two years later, Scott retained his training and used it in a fight against Ghost at the Oui in conjunction with van Dyne, and the latter even commended his form when he caught her fist and kicked her to the floor. During his battle with Kang, he was easily outmatched due to the latter being a superior fighter. However, Lang trades and counters a few blows to deliver some long enough to keep him away from escaping the quantum realm and getting close to the Multiversal Engine Core to plant his Pym Particle discs before aided by Wasp which allowed him to throw one strike that subdues the conquer.
 
*Expert Acrobat: ]] Lang is adept in acrobatics, parkour and free running maneuvers, leaping across steep divides and climbing difficult structures. He does not just perform these stunts in his shrunken state, but also when breaking into houses while in the process of thievery.
 
*Gifted Intellect: Lang possesses above average intelligence, as he was able to figure out how to use the highly complex Ant-Man Suit and gain a master's degree in electrical engineering, along with bypassing the security of Hank Pym's home.
 
*Expert Tactician: Lang has a keen mind for formulating elaborate plans and schemes, and is especially notable for being able to modify those plans to adapt to unforeseen circumstances at short notice - sometimes within seconds. Examples include when he discovers the fingerprint scanner in Hank Pym's home, when he discovers that the warehouse he is breaking into is actually now the Avengers Compound, when he is discovered by Falcon, and when Darren Cross tripled security on the Pym Technologies building, in all of these situations he was able to improvise and solve these problems quickly and effectively. He, alongside Hope van Dyne and Hank Pym, worked together on creating the heist mission to stop Darren Cross and steal the Yellowjacket Suit. He later orchestrated the breakout of Hope and Hank from police captivity. Lang has quite a good understanding of chemistry. He poured water in the locking mechanism of Pym's 1910 Carbondale safe and froze it with nitrogen, knowing it would expand but the steel would not.
 
*Expert Engineer: Lang was an electrical engineer, having earned a master's degree in the subject. He was formerly employed by VistaCorp as one of the chief engineers.
 
*Master Hacker: ]] As one of the chief engineers of VistaCorp, an international cybersecurity and data storage conglomerate, Lang possessed a large amount computer programming and hacking skills. Lang was able to create and improve the security systems for VistaCorp Headquarters and easily corrected and fixed a program that made the company overcharge customers in their transactions. Lang was even able to hack the systems of VistaCorp Headquarters, stealing nearly four million dollars and paying back the money to VistaCorp's customers, even Hank Pym was impressed by his skill in hacking as VistaCorp Headquarters has one of the most advanced security systems in the world.

## Equipment

### Other Equipment

 
*Ant-Man Suit: The suit can manipulate its wearer's size while simultaneously enhance both the wearer's density and strength. He originally wore Hank Pym's suit before wearing a new one for the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport and later wore a third suit when he partnered with the Wasp and joined the Avengers. Lang acquired a fourth suit during his newfound popularity, presumably nanotechnology as it can be contained in a small disc which rapidly expands on his chest.
**EMP Communication Device: Within the suit's helmet and in the form of earpieces developed by Hank Pym, allowing for the control of ants.
*Pym Particle Discs: About the size of a coin and shaped like a triskelion-styled shuriken, the disks are filled with specified forms of Pym Particles. Targets impacted by Red Disks shrinks to the size of an insect. Targets impacted by Blue Disks enlarges to a bigger size.
*Ankle Monitor: In the aftermath of the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport, Lang was charged for using Hank Pym's technology which were against the Sokovia Accords and was sentenced to serve two years under house arrest while ordered by the FBI to wear a tracker for monitoring his daily routines and positions.
*Quantum Realm Exploration Suit: Lang wore this suit when he and the Avengers were performing a test to see if time travel through the Quantum Realm is possible.
*Time Suit: This suit was designed in order to time travel through the Quantum Realm safely. It is a white, red and black suit that materialize around the wearer's regular clothes, managing to be summoned when time travel is required again, and disappear when no longer in use. It has size-shifting adaptability down to subatomic levels and a wrist gadget that allows for displacement through time and space.

### Vehicles

*Luis' Van: In 2015, Lang rode in the van with his friends, Luis, Dave, and Kurt Goreshter. In 2018, Lang used the van to house a smaller portable Quantum Tunnel. The van, however, was eventually destroyed by Thanos during the Battle of Earth.

## Facilities

*VistaCorp Headquarters: During his early career as an electrical engineer, he was a chief engineer for VistaCorp who was doing shady business with their customers and illegally fraud them with overcharge bills.
*Apartment: Prior to his incarceration, Lang lived with his then-wife, Maggie, and daughter, Cassie, in this apartment.
*Baskin-Robbins: Once being released from prison, Lang briefly worked as a cashier at Baskin-Robbins until the manager learned of his criminal record and had him fired.
*Jim Paxton's House: Lang resided in the house along with his wife, Maggie, and his daughter, Cassie until the divorce. In 2015, Lang visited the house to see Cassie during her birthday, to wish her a good night, to rescue her from Yellowjacket, and was invited later for dinner. In 2018, Lang went to the house after his house arrest was over. In 2023, Lang went to the house to see if Cassie was alive and had an emotional reunion with her. Later, he and Cassie were joined by Hope van Dyne and watched celebratory fireworks.
*The Milgrom Hotel: After Lang's release, he was invited by his former cellmate Luis to live with him and his two colleagues, Kurt Goreshter and Dave, in this low-end hotel until he found enough money to afford a new apartment.
*Pym Residence: Lang broke into Hank Pym's house and steal anything valuable, but only the Ant-Man Suit before he returned it to back until he was arrested again. Once Hank aided his escape, Lang takes upon the residence with Hank and his daughter, Hope.
*Avengers Compound: In 2015, Lang retrieved a device from the Facility's storage unit. In 2023, he returned to the Facility and stayed there with the Avengers to plan the Time Heist.
*X-Con Security Consultants Office: The headquarters for X-Con Security Consultants, a security company founded by former criminals Lang, Luis, Dave, and Kurt Goreshter.
*House: The home of Lang after he was allowed to return to San Francisco to serve a two-year house arrest sentence following his violation of the Sokovia Accords.
*Mobile Laboratory: Hank and Hope constructed a miniaturized laboratory that can be carried like a luggage.
*Pym van Dyne Foundation Headquarters: To be added.

### Prisons

*San Quentin State Prison: Lang was given a three-year sentence at San Quentin State Prison for breaking into VistaCorp Headquarters and its CEO Geoff Zorick's Mansion. Lang would later made parole and was released from prison.
*Raft: In 2016, Lang, Sam Wilson, Clint Barton, and Wanda Maximoff were imprisoned at the Raft for violating the Sokovia Accords. They were later broken out by Steve Rogers.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Grandfather
*Maggie Lang - Ex-Wife and Friend
*Cassie Lang/Stature - Daughter

### Allies

*Bryan - Former Colleague
*X-Con Security Consultants - Colleagues and Close Friends
**Luis - Former Fellow Inmate and Best Friend
**Dave
**Kurt Goreshter
*Peachy - Former Fellow Inmate
*Green
*Lenny
*Baskin-Robbins
**Dale - Former Employer and Friend
**Darby - Former Colleague
*Hank Pym - Mentor, Friend and Predecessor
*Hope van Dyne/Wasp - Trainer, Partner and Girlfriend
*Ants
**Ant-thony  - Steed
**Ulysses S. Gr-Ant - Steed
**Ant-tonio Banderas  - Steed
**Giant Pet Ant
**Replacement Ant
*San Francisco Police Department - Temporary Enemies
**Jim Paxton - Former Rival and Friend
**Gale
*Avengers - Former Teammates and Friends
**Steve Rogers/Captain America - Former Leader and Idol
**Sam Wilson/Falcon - Temporary Enemy and Recruiter
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye
**Wanda Maximoff 
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow 
**Vision  - Temporary Enemy
**Tony Stark/Iron Man  - Temporary Enemy
**James Rhodes/War Machine - Temporary Enemy
**Peter Parker/Spider-Man - Temporary Enemy
**Bruce Banner/Hulk
**Thor
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier
*Karapetyan - Customer
*Ava Starr/Ghost - Former Enemy
*Bill Foster - Temporary Enemy
*Janet van Dyne - Friend
*FBI - Temporary Enemies
**Jimmy Woo - Friend 
**Burleigh
**Pearson
*Daniel Gooobler
*Morgan Stark
*Guardians of the Galaxy
**Rocket - Former Teammate
**Nebula - Former Teammate
**Peter Quill/Star-Lord
**Drax the Destroyer
**Groot
**Mantis
*Masters of the Mystic Arts
**Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange
**Wong
*Golden Tribe
**T'Challa/Black Panther  - Temporary Enemy
**Shuri
*Dora Milaje
**Okoye 
*Jabari Tribe
**M'Baku
*Border Tribe
*Wakandan Royal Guard
*Asgardians
**Brunnhilde/Valkyrie
**Einherjar
*Warsong
*Korg
*Miek
*Ravagers
**Kraglin Obfonteri
*Howard the Duck
*Gamora
*Stark Industries
**Pepper Potts/Rescue
**Happy Hogan
*Morgan Stark
*Thaddeus Ross - Temporary Enemy
*Nick Fury's Crew
**Nick Fury
**Maria Hill 
*Kate Bishop/Hawkeye - Interviewee
*Ruben
*Freedom Fighters
**Jentorra
**Quaz
**Veb
**Xolum 
**Derrick
**Furry Face
*Broccoli Man
*Darren Cross/Yellowjacket/M.O.D.O.K.  - Former Attempted Killer and Former Attempted Victim 
 

### Enemies

*VistaCorp
**Geoff Zorick - Former Employer
*M. Allen
*WHiH World News
**Christine Everhart - Interviewer
*Hydra
**Mitchell Carson
**Hydra Buyer 
*Ten Rings
*Stoltz 
*Sonny Burch
*Uzman
*Anitolov
*Avengers - Situational Enemies
**Steve Rogers/Captain America
**Bruce Banner/Hulk
**Tony Stark/Iron Man
**Thor
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow
*Hydra
**Alexander Pierce
**Jasper Sitwell
**Brock Rumlow
**Jack Rollins
*Loki
*Nebula 
*Thanos  
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw 
**Cull Obsidian  - Victim
**Proxima Midnight 
**Corvus Glaive 
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
**Chitauri Gorillas
*Outriders
*Sakaarans
*Kang's Empire
**Kang the Conqueror  - Former Captor, Attempted Killer and Victim
**Quantumnauts
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for Ant-Man
|-
|
 (alternate universe) 
** (alternate universe) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (footage; alternate universe) 
* (photo) 
* (photo) 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
** 
* (memory) 
* (files) 
* (footage) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* (mentioned and depictions) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (voice) 
* (unreleased) 

In an indefinite temporality:
* (photo & mentioned) 
* (footage) 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* (photo) 
* (photo) 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
* (voice) 
* (memory) 
* (files) 
* (footage) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* (mentioned and depictions) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (unreleased) 
* (photo & mentioned) 
* (footage) 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

 
*In the comics, Scott Lang is the second individual to take up the Ant-Man mantle with the approval of Hank Pym, after he originally steals the Ant-Man Suit in order to take care of his daughter Cassandra's medical bills. He also had a relationship with Jessica Jones with Jessica's best friend Carol Danvers acting as their matchmaker.
**His Giant-Man persona doesn't exist in the Earth-616 (mainstream) continuity, but rather on Earth-1610, the Ultimates comics. Here, Lang never became Ant-Man, but inherits from Hank Pym the title of Giant-Man, a super-soldier working for S.H.I.E.L.D.
*Scott Lang is the first character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to have taken over the mantle of a former superhero, followed by Robbie Reyes, Hope van Dyne and Sam Wilson.
*Ant-Man is one of the three heroes, to have defeated the main antagonist of their first standalone movie without any assistance, the other two being Hulk and Spider-Man.
*Scott Lang is a fan of the baseball team, the . 

## Behind the Scenes

*Before Paul Rudd was cast as Ant-Man, , , and were all in the running for the role.
*Colin Follenweider, Mark Wagner, Brett Smrz, Marlow Warrington-Mattei and James Harris were stunt doubles for Paul Rudd in the role of Ant-Man.
*Michael Aaron Milligan, Brian Simpson and Kevin Marshall were stand-ins for Paul Rudd in the role of Ant-Man.
*According to Andy Park, in the early stages of development of Captain America: Civil War, Lang was meant to side with Iron Man during the Avengers Civil War, like Hank Pym in the original Civil War comic book storyline. This was later changed as the script evolved. Civil War Concept Art Reveals Iron Mans Team Almost Featured GIANT MAN/ANT-MAN 
**Screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely later revealed that had Sony declined Marvel Studios the use of Spider-Man, Lang would have been on the opposite team. Why Ant-Man Was Originally Team Iron Man In Captain America: Civil War 

## References

 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 
 

es:Scott Lang
fr:Scott Lang
pl:Ant-Man
pt-br:Homem-Formiga
ru:-
Category:Characters
Category:Ant-Man (film) Characters
Category:Captain America: Civil War Characters
Category:Ant-Man and the Wasp Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania Characters
Category:Avengers: Doomsday Characters
Category:Loki (TV series) Characters
Category:WHiH Newsfront (web series) Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Males
Category:Brown Hair
Category:Green Eyes
Category:Criminals
Category:Musicians
Category:Time-Travelers
Category:Authors
Category:VistaCorp Employees
Category:San Quentin State Prison Inmates
Category:Baskin-Robbins Employees
Category:Raft Inmates
Category:X-Con Security Consultants Employees
Category:Avengers Members
Category:Pym van Dyne Foundation Employees
Category:Pym Particles Users