Marvel x Sony Agreement 
|alias = Iron Spider Night Monkey 
|derivatives = Pete 
|nicknames = Penis Parker Spidey Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man Pedro 
|organizational = Peter-One 
|media = Amazing Man-Spider Spider-Menace Webhead Webheaded War Criminal Public Enemy #1 Iron Man Jr. Spider-Maniac Spider-Lord Arachno-Kid }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = 
|gender = Male
|DOB = August 10, 2001 Peter Parker's Passport 
|DOD = May 2018 (resurrected in October 2023) 
|snapped = Yes 
|affiliation = (formerly) (formerly) (formerly) 
|movie = Captain America: Civil War Spider-Man: Homecoming Avengers: Infinity War Avengers: Endgame Spider-Man: Far From Home Spider-Man: No Way Home Spider-Man: Brand New Day (unreleased) 'Spider-Man: No Way Home' Producer Amy Pascal Reveals More About the Historic Film and Confirms Tom Holland's Future as Spider-Man }}
|oneshot = Peter's To-Do List
|tv series = }}
|web series = The Daily Bugle
|docuseries = Legends *The Avengers Initiative
|comic = Avengers: Endgame Prelude Spider-Man: Far From Home Prelude Spider-Man: Far From Home - Got To Hand it To Him Spider-Man: Far From Home - Them's The Brakes Black Widow Prelude (flashbacks) }}
|book = }}
|actor = Tom Holland Max Favreau (young) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Peter Benjamin Parker is a former Midtown School of Science and Technology student who gained superhuman abilities and fought crime in New York City as the superhero Spider-Man. While he juggled his hero duties with the demands of his high-school life, he was recruited by Tony Stark to join the Avengers Civil War, putting Spider-Man into a brief conflict with Captain America. Parker was given a new suit as well as new Stark technology in exchange for his help and was allowed to keep them when he returned home to continue his own hero work.

While he continued to try and prove himself as a worthy hero in the eyes of Iron Man so he could join the Avengers, Parker began investigating the illicit criminal activities of Vulture, who was attempting to sell his Chitauri based weapons onto the black market, with only the assistance of his best friend Ned Leeds, while also trying to win his academic decathlon finals. Eventually, Parker gained the affections of classmate Liz Allan, but learned her father, Adrian Toomes, was Vulture. Spider-Man thwarted Vulture's robbery of a Stark Industries cargo plane, to which Stark showed his respect by offering Parker an official place with the Avengers. Parker turned this down in order to continue being a local hero in Queens, despite his Aunt May discovering his secret identity.

Parker was pulled back into the Avengers' conflict when the Black Order had invaded Earth, joining Stark as a stowaway to rescue Doctor Strange from space. Given a new Iron Spider armor, Parker, Stark and Strange joined forces with the Guardians of the Galaxy, joining their attempts to prevent Thanos from collecting the six Infinity Stones. But the heroes failed to defeat Thanos during the Battle of Titan; resulting in half of life being wiped out; including Parker. Five years later, Spider-Man was resurrected in the Blip, and rejoined the fight against Thanos, ultimately watching Stark sacrifice his life to defeat the Mad Titan.

The bereaved and traumatized Parker decided to take some time off his hero duties, while also being pressured by the press if he would be the next Iron Man, and seeking refuge on his school trip to Europe. However, despite wanting to focus his attention on winning the attention of Michelle Jones, Parker witnessed Hydro-Man's attack in Venice and was recruited by "Nick Fury" to work with Mysterio to defeat the Elementals. Dubbed Night Monkey after defeating Molten Man in Prague, Parker bequeathed Stark's glasses to Mysterio, only to discover that Mysterio manipulated him in doing so to gain access to Stark's weaponized drones to stage more threats. Recruiting Happy Hogan's help, Spider-Man traveled to London and defeated Mysterio, who died of a misfired gunshot on the Tower Bridge.

Upon Parker's return to New York, doctored footage was sent to The Daily Bugle incriminating him as the mastermind of the drone attacks, as well as the murderer of Mysterio, while exposing his true identity to the world. While he was eventually cleared of all charges with Matt Murdock's help, the resulting controversy upended his and his friends' futures, leading Parker to enlist Doctor Strange to cast a memory-altering spell, wishing to make the identity of Spider-Man a secret once more. However, Parker's repeated amendments mid-casting ruined the spell, resulting in a multiversal rift that unleashed foes of Spider-Man from alternate universes. Although intending to cure them before sending them back to avert their ill-fated deaths in their native universes, Green Goblin convinced the villains to betray Parker, ultimately resulting in his aunt's death. Parker then met two alternate versions of himself who helped him overcome his grief and cure their enemies in a battle on the Statue of Liberty. Faced with an impossible choice, Parker had Strange cast another spell to make their universe oblivious to his existence in order to protect the Multiverse from collapsing, erasing himself from his friends and allies' memories in his universe. Starting anew and believing himself to be dangerous to those around him, Parker decided to isolate himself from everyone, including his friends and allies, in order to keep them safe and resumed his duties undisturbed as an independent Spider-Man.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### Growing Up in New York

 
Peter Benjamin Parker was born in Queens, New York City on August 10, 2001. Orphaned by his parents during childhood, the young Parker was left to be raised by his loving aunt, May Parker, and uncle, Ben Parker, the latter of whom died later in his life. Spider-Man Needs to Be White and Straight, Say Leaked Sony Emails 

#### Battle at Stark Expo

 
 ]]
On May 31, 2010, Parker visited the Stark Expo and acquired toy replicas of the Iron Man helmet and glove, as well as Tony Stark's autograph. During his second visit, Hammer Drones sent by Ivan Vanko began attacking the expo, prompting Stark, the host, to fight them as Iron Man. One drone had landed in front of Parker, who held his hand up in defiance and aimed his toy repulsor at the suit. Iron Man arrived shortly thereafter and annihilated the drone, thanking Parker for his help before flying off to continue his battle, leaving Parker awestruck. 

#### Becoming Spider-Man

 
In his teens, Parker attended Midtown School of Science and Technology, where he quickly became best friends with his classmate Ned Leeds, and the target of bullying from Flash Thompson. Parker also became acquainted with Michelle Jones, who often teased him, and developed a crush on Liz Allan, a popular student.
 
In late 2015, at the age of fourteen, Parker was bitten by a spider and acquired superhuman powers, including strength and speed proportional to that of a spider and an uncanny ability to adhere to walls. Resolving to use his abilities to help those in need, Parker developed his own synthetic web fluid and Web-Shooters to use when battling criminals in New York City as the masked superhero Spider-Man. To keep his identity as Spider-Man a secret, Parker maintained an unassuming lifestyle, refusing to join the football team or do anything he would not have done before. 

#### Internet Sensation

 
 though, right? I mean that's where you found it. 'Cause you know that's all fake. It's all done on a computer.|Peter Parker to Tony Stark|Captain America: Civil War}}
Since beginning his vigilante and amateur superhero career, Spider-Man had caught the attention of various news organizations and reporters. Witnesses had filmed footage of his feats, such as subduing a thief and stopping a speeding car from hitting a bus, and they have posted said footage to and other video hosting sites. The video of Spider-Man catching the bus was also viewed on YouTube by Tony Stark, who then managed to discern his identity and looked into his activities. 

### Avengers Civil War

#### Recruited by Tony Stark

 to find Tony Stark]]
 
On the evening of June 23, 2016, Parker returned home from school, he greeted his Aunt May and made mention of a "crazy car" parked outside their apartment building. The presence of Tony Stark, his biggest idol, in the living room then caught Parker off-guard, leaving him speechless. Parker became confused when Stark told his aunt that Stark Industries planned to give him a sizable grant, claiming that Parker had signed up for it in the past, which he had not.
 
During a private conversation in Parker's room, Stark showed him footage of Spider-Man apprehending criminals and stopping speeding cars with his bare hands. Stark jokingly wondered if that figure was not Parker, to which Parker awkwardly denied the figure's existence, instead simply claiming that all of the footage had been edited.
 
Parker kept claiming that the video was fake footage that was made on a computer, but his cover was blown when Stark uncovered the makeshift outfit that Parker used as his costume hidden in a loft space. Parker had no other choice but to confess that he had been Spider-Man for six months. Stark ridiculed Parker for his cheap costume, but was impressed by, and complimented, the tensile strength of his web fluid and asked who had made it, to which Parker admitted that he had made it.
 's team]]
Parker became defensive when Stark mocked the design of Parker's goggles from his costume, explaining that the goggles helped him focus his enhanced senses. When Stark wondered why he became Spider-Man, Parker, without going into detail, explained that he understood that he needed to stop bad things from happening. Stark invited him to come to Germany to confront Captain America, but Parker claimed he had too much homework to go out and join the mission.
 to the doorknob]] 
Ignoring Parker, Stark said that the mission could be dangerous and decided to tell May that he was taking Parker out on a field trip. As Stark walked toward the door, Parker overreacted for a moment and had used his own Web-Shooters to web Stark's hand next to the doorknob, ordering him not to tell May. Stark relented but after a brief silence, asked to be freed from his webbing. Embarrassed, Parker freed Stark's hand from the door awkwardly so he could leave as they then went to Germany. 

#### New Spider-Suit

 
 
Parker was then escorted by Happy Hogan onboard Stark Industries Private Jet bound for Germany. While Hogan was driving him, Parker made a video throughout his trip which Hogan reminded him that he could not show it to anyone. When Parker tried to make conversation with Hogan by asking why people often called him Happy, he was ignored for the rest of the trip to the airport by the highly irritated Hogan.
 ]]
When Parker arrived on the jet, he was amazed by all the cool features on board, such as its need for no pilots as well as the fact that there were bathrooms located on board the jet itself. When Parker sat down, Hogan was confused by all Parker's awkwardness, as he had never been on a plane before as he chose to sit down just across from him, noting he had never left New York City before. While Hogan slept on the jet, Parker videoed him, waking him up in shock.
 for his mission]]
When they arrived in Berlin, Parker explored the country video-logging everything without actually knowing why he was there in the first place, Parker was simply told that Captain America had now apparently gone crazy which was the reason why Iron Man had requested his help. When they arrived at the hotel, Hogan directed Parker to his room which was right next door to Hogan's own room, but to the delight of Parker and the irritation of Hogan.
 
Having then been told to suit up to go onto the mission in just a few minutes, Parker then prepared for his upcoming fight with all of the rogue Avengers and put on his original suit and warmed himself up by filming himself in the mirror. Hogan soon walked in on Parker and, bewildered, asked Parker why he was not wearing the suit that Tony Stark made him, only for Parker to question what Hogan meant as he had not yet found anything from Stark in the hotel for him.
 ]]
Parker, who was unaware of such a suit, then located the suitcase in another part of his hotel room and opened it, revealing the new suit and its features and upgrades which had been designed for him by Stark. Parker, speechless, put on the suit and joined Hogan who took him to Leipzig-Halle Airport, with Hogan showing no patience for Parker's excitement for the new upgraded Spider-Man Suit as Parker continued filming his reaction. 

#### Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport

 
 
While waiting for his cue from Iron Man to join the fight, Spider-Man secretly filmed and shortly narrated the standoff from some distance away, excitedly capturing Iron Man along with other members of the Avengers. While he was wondering who Black Panther was as he was currently standing alongside the Avengers, Iron Man then gave Spider-Man the cue to come out, much to his great excitement.
 's Shield]]
Spider-Man quickly put down his phone and swung to the standoff, thereby stripping Captain America of his shield with his webbing while also binding Rogers' hands together. Spider-Man then gracefully landed on a tug, casually greeting everyone. He then quickly became distracted at the sight of the Avengers, who he idolized, much to Iron Man's annoyance since he told Spider-Man to stop talking and instead focus onto their mission. After saluting Captain America, Spider-Man looked on as Iron Man and Captain America continued to argue about the Sokovia Accords, keeping the shield so Captain America was at a disadvantage.
 
However, Spider-Man was surprised by Ant-Man, who had managed to sneak onto the shield and kick him in order to return it to Captain America. As the Avengers began to fight each other, Spider-Man asked Iron Man what he was supposed to do. Iron Man had told Spider-Man to keep his distance and use his Web-Shooters against Captain America and his companions, as he did not want to hurt any of them or Spider-Man himself during the fight against the Avengers.
 ]]
Spider-Man then followed Falcon and Bucky Barnes in the airport terminal building by ascending onto and crawling along the outside windows, much to the great confusion of both. Spider-Man had then proceeded to smash his way through the glass and knocked Falcon to the ground with a hard kick, turning upon Barnes to stop his punch, though he became fascinated by his metal arm, calling it awesome, as Barnes was confused by the statement.
 in the air]]
This momentary distraction allowed Falcon to tackle him and fly into the air while Spider-Man wrestled him, trying to insist that he would take Falcon into custody somehow as they continued to wrestle in mid-air. While Spider-Man swung through the airport terminal in pursuit of Falcon, he sensed Barnes had just thrown something at him, allowing Spider-Man to barely dodge out of the way before then throwing it back towards Barnes.
 with his webbing]]
During a battle against Falcon, Spider-Man managed to use his webbing to damage the EXO-7 Falcon, causing Falcon to crash land before Spider-Man then webbed him up to some hand railings in the terminal building, but became distracted, this time by his wingsuit, as Spider-Man began wondering if they were made from carbon fiber as he had rambled about the sophistication of the harness, much to Falcon's irritation as he noted he should not talk as much.
 and Falcon]]
As Barnes tried to intervene, Spider-Man was able to trap him and Falcon in his webbing, knocking them both onto the ground floor below, taking them out of the fight for the time being. As he began to apologize for their fight, Spider-Man was caught off-guard and was snatched away by Redwing, which grappled his leg and flew through a window, dropping him outside while Falcon and Barnes had then escaped the webbing while Spider-Man was gone.
 
Unfazed by his defeat, Spider-Man rejoined his teammates as they lined up against Captain America's own team in a brief standoff, with Vision trying to divide the pair with a powerful beam which was fired from the Mind Stone. When the two teams began charging straight towards each other, Spider-Man had initially thought that Captain America's team would back down, but Iron Man noted that they would not back down from a fight either as they all began running.
 
As he charged into battle with the rest of his team, Spider-Man briefly fought with Wanda Maximoff as he fired his Web-Shooters at her while dodging the cars she threw back in return and evading Hawkeye's various trick arrows before Hawkeye had then ignored Spider-Man in order to fight against the Black Widow. Spider-Man then just swung across the airport dodging whatever Maximoff threw at him in an attempt to assist Iron Man's fight against the opposing team. 

#### Fighting Captain America

 ]]
 
As Spider-Man swung across the airport, he witnessed Wanda Maximoff saving Bucky Barnes from Black Panther before his webbing was cut as Captain America brought Spider-Man to the ground by throwing his shield at Spider-Man's webbing. The pair expressed their respect to each other while Captain America also asked what Iron Man had said about him.
 alone]]
Spider-Man explained to Captain America that Iron Man had believed Captain America was wrong about his views on the Sokovia Accords and that made him dangerous. Spider-Man also explained that Iron Man had advised him to aim for his legs, which he did, using his Web-Shooters to trip Captain America and drag him across the ground before kicking him. Spider-Man attempted to subdue Captain America by webbing his arms and pulling him back, struggling against Captain America's strength.
 ]]
With Captain America then quickly able to flip away from Spider-Man's grasp and threw Spider-Man away, Spider-Man still continued to try and subdue Captain America with webs. Eventually, Captain America was able to yank on one of the webs and threw Spider-Man towards him before hitting him hard across the face with his shield, forcing Spider-Man to retreat by leaping back, while Captain America continued asking what Iron Man had told Spider-Man about him.
 
Seeking to end the fight, Captain America used his shield to damage the support beams of a platform, which fell and forced Spider-Man to hold it up. Captain America found Spider-Man's strength impressive and his heart genuine. As Captain America retrieved his shield and prepared to rejoin the battle, he asked Spider-Man where he was from, as Spider-Man then told he was from Queens, while Captain America was from Brooklyn before he had left the beleaguered hero behind. 

#### Taking Down Giant-Man

 
 ?|Spider-Man to War Machine and Iron Man|Captain America: Civil War}}
Once he concluded fighting against Captain America, Spider-Man once again picked up his phone and described what was transpiring during his scuffle, explaining how he had stolen Captain America's shield during their skirmish. However, while he was narrating to the camera, Spider-Man witnessed Ant-Man transforming himself into his giant form before grabbing hold of War Machine's leg in mid-air which briefly stopped the battle. Spider-Man shouted an expletive at the sheer disbelief of the sight he was beholden to.
 ]]
Realizing that he had to go and help his team fight against Giant-Man, Spider-Man placed his phone on the ground, and cursed in amazement at the sight of Giant-Man towering above them all. When War Machine was thrown across the airport by Giant-Man, he was about to smash into an aircraft parked just outside, but Spider-Man saved him by firing his own Synthetic Webbing at War Machine and then pulling him away from the aircraft and swinging him back.
 ]]
While Captain America and Bucky Barnes used the distraction to attempt to escape by stealing their Quinjet from the nearby hanger, Spider-Man continued to fight against Giant-Man with the help of War Machine and Vision, unaware that this all was actually merely a distraction. While Spider-Man had then attached himself onto War Machine's armor with his webbing, he swung up and stuck his web to Giant-Man's arm, while using the momentum to kick him.
 's face]]
Spider-Man then climbed onto Giant-Man's face and attempted to distract him by pressing himself against his goggles but was forced to retreat when Giant-Man threw him off from his own face with his own gargantuan hand. Towards the end of their battle, Spider-Man was inspired by the movie and had come up with a strategy to defeat Giant-Man, although War Machine was also briefly mortified by realizing how young Spider-Man was.
 ]]
Spider-Man then proceeded to use his Web-Shooters and webbed up Giant-Man's knees so that he then lost his balance, and then let War Machine and Iron Man both fly up at full speed and strike him against the helmet with full power. As a result, Giant-Man fell over, hitting the now overly excited Spider-Man on the way down, making him fly into a pile of wooden boxes; knocking him unconscious for a short while on the battlefield as the fight continued elsewhere.
 
After the battle, Iron Man had told the exhausted Spider-Man, whose mask had come out of his face, that he was done and should now go home, threatening to call May Parker if he did not. Feeling like he had disappointed Iron Man, Spider-Man desperately tried to convince him that he could still keep fighting, but soon reluctantly agreed while Iron Man flew off to chase Captain America, and admitted he was indeed done as he lay down utterly exhausted from the fight on the floor. 

#### Keeping the Suit

 ]]
 
Once he was back in his hotel room, Parker filmed himself describing in excitement what had happened during the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport, noting how Iron Man had called him into the battle and he had stolen Captain America's Shield before getting involved in the conflict. Before going on, he was interrupted by the arrival of Happy Hogan, who knocked on the door and informed him that he could hear him through the thin walls.
 
Unable to go to sleep, Parker then wore the Spider-Man Suit and left his hotel room via the window, and using all the rooftops, he quickly traversed all through Berlin until he got to a nightclub. Spider-Man, vlogging the entire experience, took pictures with the partygoers and used his Web-Shooters to swing around with female guests, taking every chance to celebrate the incredible experience. Spider-Man had continued partying before quietly returning to the hotel. Parker also purchased and watched an adult video through the hotel's pay-per-view that night. 
 ]]
The next morning, Parker got breakfast and enjoying being flirted with by a waitress when Hogan questioned if he had been out as Spider-Man. The unimpressed Hogan thrust a German newspaper in his face, which featured the photo of Spider-Man saving the Berlin chancellor, with the German media dubbing him as "Der Erstaunliche Klebrige Junge." Returning home from Germany, Parker and Tony Stark were driven by Hogan to his apartment in New York City.
 ]]
Parker filmed Stark explaining to Aunt May that Parker had done an impressive job at the internship for Stark Industries, although Stark still could not resist making suggestive remarks about May while they were still filming. When they arrived home, Stark told Parker that he could keep the Spider-Man Suit, with Hogan keeping an eye on him. Parker returned home after Stark had given him some advice on how he should operate as Spider-Man for the foreseeable future. 
 about the fight]]
Parker returned home, resting in his bedroom as May gave him an ice bag for his black eye, which he had gained when Captain America had struck him hard across the face with his shield during the battle. When May asked Parker who had injured him, he told her about a Brooklyn man named "Steve" and his huge friend. May then jokingly asked how he had done during the fight, hoping he had stood up for himself and Parker assured his aunt he got a few punches in himself.
 ]]
When May had exited the room to leave him alone, Parker continued to inspect his new Web-Shooters designed by Stark Industries. When Parker accidentally pressed a button hidden underneath the devices, a bright red beam suddenly emitted from the Web-Shooter on his right wrist, projecting the Spider-Signal onto the ceiling — much to Parker's surprise and delight as he considered what his own future as Spider-Man would hold with Stark's backing behind him. 

### Back to Daily Life

#### A Morning Rush

One night, Parker sneaked out of his apartment to do some work as Spider-Man. However, he was unable to find any crimes and ended up falling asleep on a roof. In the morning, he woke up to the sound of sirens and looked to see what was happening. Suddenly, a crow came out of nowhere and grabbed his mask off of his head. Parker tried to fight back, but the crow flew away. Parker looked around and found a clothesline, taking a shirt off of the wire to wear as a mask. He then pursued the Enforcers and got them arrested before returning to his apartment just in time for breakfast. 

#### Midtown Science Student

 ]]
 
Two months later, Parker began his sophomore year of High school and continued his daily life as a high school student at the Midtown School of Science and Technology. He continued to try to get back into contact with Happy Hogan in order to arrange another mission with the Avengers to prove his worth, only to find Hogan would not reply to his messages.
 ]]
Arriving at Midtown once he had taken the train across from New York City, Parker accidentally got in the way of Flash Thompson, who was driving his father's expensive sports car; Thompson immediately mocked him and called him "Penis Parker" as a way of greeting, which Parker ignored. Parker then walked into school through a sea of other students and made his way to his locker, where he put away his jacket and prepared for another day in his education.
 walk through school]]
Before classes began, Parker met with his best friend Ned Leeds, who invited Parker to build his new . While highly excited, Parker claimed he could not join Leeds tonight as he instead had his internship at Stark Industries. When Leeds was somewhat disappointed, Parker expressed his hope it could lead to a real job with Tony Stark. Parker then became distracted by Liz Allan walking by as Leeds suggested he would come over later that night to work on the Death Star after making some headway on it.
 's question]]
During physics class, Parker watched clips of himself as the Spider-Man performing various heroic deeds to try and get a sense of the public's perception of him. However, Warren noticed he was not paying attention and since Thompson had just failed to answer her question of determining linear acceleration on a pendulum swing between two points, she invited Parker to try. Parker took one look at the board and solved the problem, innately familiar with its concept due to his web-slinging. Warren complimented him, to which Thompson tried intimidating Parker.
 
As he kept a close watch on the clock throughout the day, Parker then went to Cobbwell's lab, in which he was being taught 's discoveries regarding quantum theory. Parker had finished his lab early, so he instead focused on upgrading his web fluid for his Web-Shooters. Parker secretly mixed the chemicals together in a beaker hidden in his class drawer to create the fluid but discovered that it was forming much too fast and soon began to overflow over the beaker. Parker simply shut his drawer and continued listening to Cobbwell's lesson, while still keeping an eye on the clock to keep track of how long until he could leave school and be Spider-Man.
 admiring Liz Allan]]
Over their lunch break, Parker and Leeds continued admiring Allan from afar in the cafeteria, watching her as she put up a banner for the upcoming homecoming dance. As they discussed what top Allan was wearing and if it was new or not, Michelle Jones interrupted and stated they were both creepy losers. Parker was confused and Leeds tried to turn the insult back on Jones, who calmly noted that she did not have any friends and therefore did not care about what they said.
 
Believing that Spider-Man would soon be recruited as an Avenger, Parker quit marching band and robotics lab to ensure his availability. He then told Roger Harrington that he would be unavailable for their school's academic decathlon team's Nationals in favor of his heroic activities which he covered up by saying it was for the Stark Internship. As Thompson questioned if Parker had ever even met Tony Stark in person, the rest of their team, particularly Allan and Cindy Moon, expressed their shock that Parker would be quitting right before Nationals. 
 
After practice while eating with his teammates, Parker was forced to defend his sudden decision to quit the decathlon team as Allan noted how little time there was before they went to Washington, D.C. for Nationals and Parker was their best player in physics. Although Parker tried to argue that they had Thompson to replace him, Abe Brown noted that everyone on the team preferred Parker. Parker then insisted that the decathlon would not do a physics challenge two years in a row.
 ]]
As some decathlon members threw food at him out of annoyance for him quitting, Parker continued apologizing as he left the table. Allan followed him down the hallway, assuring Parker that she understood the struggle of trying to juggle everything in his life, but suggested he could still come experience Washington with their team, who were counting on him. Parker continued to insist that he simply did not have the time, leaving Allan disappointed. 
 ]]
Having sat through several more classes within the Midtown Science School and became increasingly impatient to get outside, finally, the bell rang at quarter to three and Parker was able to leave. Charging out the front doors, Parker took a brief look around to ensure that nobody else could see him before using his Spider-Man powers to leap several feet above the school fence before making his way back into New York City to begin his next adventure as Spider-Man.
 ]]
Parker first stopped at Delmar's Deli-Grocery, where he greeted Delmar and bought himself a sandwich and gummy worms as an after-school snack. Delmar asked after Parker's aunt before saying in Spanish that May was a beautiful woman. Parker retorted in Spanish by asking after Delmar's own daughter. Delmar threatened to overcharge him for the sandwich, but Parker apologized, convincing him to sell for the original price. Parker then greeted Murph and paid for the sandwich. 

#### Hero Duty

 back on]]
 
Thus, every day after at Midtown School of Science and Technology, Parker made his way into the outskirts of New York City where he would soon find an empty alleyway to hide his school bag and don the Spider-Man Suit. Seeking to prove himself as a hero, Spider-Man would then patrol the city and continue his crime-fighting in New York, searching for anybody who may need his assistance.
 
As he swung across the city looking for trouble going on, Spider-Man soon came across a bicycle thief charging down the sidewalk in an attempt to get away. So, Spider-Man leaped into action and blocked the thief's path before then using his Web-Shooters to send the thief flying up to be arrested by the New York City Police Department, all while Spider-Man then took possession of the bicycle, awkwardly searching for its owner who was nowhere to be found. As he could not find the owner, Spider-Man left a note signed by the "Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man."
 
As his search for people to aid with his super-powers proved more challenging than he expected as he struggled to find some legitimate crimes going on which he could stop, Spider-Man ended up using his time on the streets to perform minor acts of kindness, including helping to guide an old woman through New York City when she had gotten lost, being rewarded with a churro for his efforts in helping her, which Spider-Man gratefully took and later ate and enjoyed.
 
Not all heroics were successful, in one instance he webbed a man trying to get into his car, which he had mistaken for him attempting to steal the car. This resulted in the man's car alarm being set off while he demanded to be free of the webbing. This, in turn, landed Spider-Man in a lot of trouble among the neighbors, with the man yelling out while Marjorie also yelled out from her own window as Spider-Man awkwardly attempted to resolve the matter peacefully.
 an update]]
Desperate for something more exciting and meaningful, Parker kept trying to call and text Tony Stark through Happy Hogan but was continuously ignored by him. While taking a break from his attempts at heroics, Parker left a message on Hogan's voicemail in which he explained how he had stopped the bike thief and helped the old lady, hoping this would help get him into the Avengers so he could be a real hero at last and be able to make a real difference. 

#### Stopping a Bank Robbery

 ]]
 
Later that night, Spider-Man spotted a small group of thieves attempting to rob an ATM. Building up confidence, preparing a posture, and determined to prove himself as a hero, Spider-Man went to confront them. Getting their attention, Spider-Man mocked the group for having disguised themselves with cheap Avengers masks, questioning why Tony Stark would be robbing a bank, as the robbers attacked him.
 ]]
Spider-Man then fought the whole gang off effortlessly, continuing to mock them as if they were the real Avengers. During the fight, Spider-Man blocked a punch from the robber dressed as Thor and threw him into the robber dressed as Hulk. Using his enhanced abilities as well as his own Web-Shooters, Spider-Man soon subdued almost all of the robbers, becoming more confident as the fight went on with Spider-Man easily dominating the entire skirmish.
 ]]
However, one of the thugs used a highly advanced Anti-Gravity Gun made from Chitauri technology to even the odds, knocking back Spider-Man. The fight resulted in one of the weapons accidentally destroying one of the nearby shops where Delmar was working. Spider-Man managed to capture the thieves and rescue Delmar and his cat before allowing the New York City Police Department and the United States Department of Damage Control to come in and deal with the robbers.
 ]]As he hurriedly left the scene, somewhat shaken, Spider-Man made his way to the alley where he had hidden his backpack, all while calling Happy Hogan once again. This time, Hogan picked up, and Parker quickly explained everything that had just happened. Busy with the relocation of Avengers Tower, Hogan told him to calm down and stay away from dangerous situations, insisting that he needed to act responsibly — especially after admitting he had lost his backpack. 

#### Found by Ned Leeds

 
 
Spider-Man returned to the Parker Residence, slowly opening the window into his bedroom and crawled on the ceiling, stealthily moving through once closing the window after making sure Aunt May wouldn't notice him. Taking special care not to make any noise as he arrived, before using his Web-Shooters to quietly close the door so that he could then change into his normal clothes once again.
 ]]
However, just as Spider-Man relaxed and turned back towards his bed, he discovered that Ned Leeds was inside his room all along and had just witnessed Parker crawling across the ceiling while wearing his Spider-Man Suit. Amazed by what he had just witnessed, Leeds then dropped his onto the floor while Parker desperately attempted to insist that he was not the Spider-Man, although Leeds had clearly figured it all out already.
 from finding out]]
After Parker took off the suit and realized he had accidentally invited Leeds over to finish the Lego Death Star, they were interrupted by May. She informed Parker that they would be eating out tonight as her turkey meatloaf had failed to cook properly. May invited Leeds to join them for Thai food, but Parker claimed that he had another engagement. May then recommended that Parker put on some clothes before they leave. When Leeds questioned if May knew the truth, Parker revealed that nobody but Tony Stark knew.
 to keep his secret]]
When Parker revealed that Stark had made the suit for him, Leeds excitedly wondered if he was a member of the Avengers, to which Parker awkwardly claimed that he "basically" was. Following some more arguing, Parker managed to convince Leeds to keep his Spider-Man activities a secret from May, not wanting to cause any more distress for his aunt after the death of his uncle, which Leeds reluctantly agreed to. As Leeds left, he tried to ask Parker more questions about being Spider-Man, which an overwhelmed Parker promised to answer tomorrow at school. 

#### Dinner with Aunt May

 ]]
 
Together, Parker and Aunt May went to Prachya Thai. As Parker pondered over recent events, May then questioned him over why he was so distracted and barely touching his food, as larb was his favorite. Parker excused that the internship at Stark Industries was stressing him out. Just then, he noticed a NY1 news broadcast reporting Spider-Man's fight at the Robbery of the Queens Community Bank and the destruction of Delmar's Deli-Grocery.
 
Parker's attention was brought back to May when she recommended that he never get involved with anything like that, which Parker quickly promised not to. Parker then changed the subject by revealing that he lost his fifth backpack and needed a replacement. They were interrupted by a Thai Waiter, who offered May dessert on the house, prompting Parker to tease his aunt over the man having a crush on her. 

#### Party Invitation

 ]]
 
Parker tried to resume his daily life with his friend aware of his heroic activities. On the way to School, Parker explained to Ned Leeds how he gained his powers from being bitten by the spider, noting that the spider was now dead. On route, they came across the aftermath of the Robbery of the Queens Community Bank, as Parker noted the arrival of the United States Department of Damage Control and Anne Marie Hoag before they continued towards school.
 
While they sat in their classes, including science and one lecture on the origins of the Sokovia Accords, Leeds continued pestering Parker with questions regarding his abilities as Spider-Man; such as how he gained his powers as well as other trivial matters which soon began to annoy Parker. As the questions continued, Parker ignored most of the questions as Leeds asked if he laid eggs, how far he could fire his Web-Shooters and if he could summon an army of spiders.
 ]]
As they prepared for Coach Andre Wilson's gym class, they were shown a video of Captain America's Fitness Challenge, as Leeds questioned if Parker had ever met Captain America in person while going out on his missions as Spider-Man. Somewhat pleased with himself and willing to brag for a moment, Parker revealed to Leeds that he had managed to successfully steal Captain America's Shield during the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport, much to Leeds' complete amazement.
 ]]
When they were continuing their training in the school's gym, doing Captain America's Fitness challenge, Leeds still would not stop and questioned if the Avengers had to pay taxes and what Hulk actually smelled like and if Steve Rogers was cool or like a mean grandpa, until Parker told him to shut up. Leeds still did not stop and instead asked if he could be Parker's man in the chair giving him assistance during missions, much to Parker's considerable annoyance.
 
Parker and Leeds then overheard Liz Allan talking with her friends Betty Brant, Charles Murphy, and Seymour O'Reilly, during which Allan confessed to harboring a crush on Spider-Man while discussing the Avengers. As Leeds then suddenly announced that Parker was friends with Spider-Man and that he would be at Allan's party, annoying Parker. Having endured mockery from Flash Thompson, Leeds had then convinced Parker this was a good chance to get involved with Allan. 

#### Liz Allan's Party

 ]]
 
Later that same evening, Aunt May drove the pair up to the Toomes Residence, noting her own love for house parties. While outside the house, May complimented Ned Leeds on his hat while Parker became nervous and suggested going home, only for May to tease him by questioning if he was going through puberty and felt apprehensive about his own body's changes until Parker had finally relented and he and Leeds went into the party, much to Leeds' great delight.
 ]]
As they arrived, Parker revealed to Leeds that he was indeed wearing the Spider-Man Suit beneath his clothing, much to Leeds excitement. Entering the house, they saw that Flash Thompson was acting as the DJ for the party while Michelle Jones teased them for coming to the party while denying that she was also attending the party. They were soon greeted by Liz Allan, who had expressed her happiness that Parker had come while Parker complimented her on her party.
 ]]
While Leeds insisted that he needed to dress up and be Spider-Man to impress everybody there, Parker refused and was adamant to be himself, despite Leeds insisting that this would impress nobody. However, after another taunt from Thompson, who mocked Parker for failing to arrive with Spider-Man while still calling him Penis Parker while the crowds laughed, Parker excused himself and donned his costume outside on the Toomes Residence's roof in private.
 ]]
Having put on the Spider-Man Suit, Parker began practicing how he would arrive at the party and impress everybody, although he began to get cold feet. While on the roof, Parker then spotted a large blue explosion far off in the distance. Wishing to investigate, Spider-Man donned his mask and swung off the roof, only to quickly find himself in the middle of the park with nothing for his Web-Shooters to attach onto, forcing Spider-Man to simply run towards the explosion. 

### Conflict with Vulture

#### Chase of Vulture's Crew

 
 
Before long, Spider-Man found Jackson Brice as he was trying to sell weapons on the black market, some of which Spider-Man deduced were the same as from the Robbery of the Queens Community Bank the other day, with Brice demonstrating the Ultron Blaster Gun. As Spider-Man watched, Aaron Davis, the buyer, explained that he was not interested in such dangerous weapons and still preferred a simple gun to use.
 ]]
While Brice was attempting to show off his Black Hole Grenade set and other equipment for Davis to possibly buy, their deal was suddenly interrupted when they heard a call ringtone as Ned Leeds' had called Spider-Man about his whereabouts as he was expecting him back at Liz Allan's party to impress the guests. This made the two criminals instantly believe that Davis had set them up and aimed their guns at him. Intent on saving Davis, Spider-Man then intervened and told the two thugs to shoot him instead of Davis. Herman Schultz happily obliged before Brice put on Shocker's Gauntlet and punched Spider-Man with some considerable force before they attempted to make their escape.
 
A chase then ensued as Spider-Man used his Web-Shooters to web onto the thug's van and was dragged along as they tried to make their escape, causing damage throughout the neighborhood. While Spider-Man was dragged through the streets, Brice then used his weapons within the truck to continue firing at Spider-Man, managing to also damage his own truck during their clash. Eventually, Spider-Man was driven into a brick post and lost his grip on the truck.
 
Finally managing to shake him off the van, Brice and Schultz attempt to make their escape while Spider-Man was left to chase and search for them yet again. Running through the outskirts of New York City, Spider-Man struggled to use his Web-Shooters as he ran through residential housing, encountering local people while bringing down a treehouse and crashing through a garden shed. Spider-Man landed by a girl's tent, as the girls then loudly screamed.
 ]]
Spider-Man continued to keep track of the van, causing considerably more disturbance throughout the neighborhood in his pursuit. Before long, he managed to find the criminal's van. Just as he was about to jump onto their van, Vulture appeared and grabbed him from behind, using his Vulture's Exo-Suit to violently pull Spider-Man into the sky. Spider-Man struggled to get off this new adversary's grip as Vulture continued bringing him higher up into the sky.
 ]]
During their struggle when Vulture reached high enough, the Spider-Man Suit's emergency parachute activated. The parachute caught the wind and allowed Spider-Man to get off Vulture's grip, crashing him into the lake below. The parachute hindered Spider-Man and he struggled to release himself from it, seemingly about to drown. All of a sudden, Iron Man appeared and rescued him, managing to pull him out of the lake and onto dry land before he could drown. 

#### Saved by Iron Man

 ]]
 
Pulling him up from the lake, Tony Stark talked to Parker as he dried off in the neighborhood playground. Parker had inquired how Stark knew where was, asking if he put a tracker into the Spider-Man Suit before Stark then revealed that he actually did put a tracker inside the suit, along with various other advanced features, including a heater to dry him off following his near-drowning inside the lake. Spider-Man suggested that the Avengers might need to get involved to bring down Vulture's Crew, but Iron Man insisted the situation with Vulture was below the Avengers' pay grade.
 discuss Vulture]]
As Parker insisted that Stark did not have to have come all the way out to help him, Stark then revealed that he was not there in person and that he was remotely controlling the Mark XLVII Armor while he was currently in India. While Iron Man insisted that he stop looking into Vulture and just protect New York City from muggers, Spider-Man insisted he was ready for more, pointing to his fight with Captain America, but Stark had still refused to accept this explanation.
 weapons]]
Once Stark had left, Ned Leeds called Parker and advised him not to return to the party since Flash Thompson had continued to make a mockery out of him while he had been gone. As Spider-Man began to leave the area, he discovered a Chitauri Energy Core that had been left behind by Brice and Schultz during the chase, while Spider-Man took it away to attempt to get a lead on what weaponry the criminals were working with and how to eventually track them all down. 

#### Tracking Vulture

 test the technology]]
 
Despite his talk of desisting with Tony Stark, Parker still began investigating his new adversary. He had told Ned Leeds about his own terrifying encounter with Vulture and his discovery of their Chitauri Energy Core which had been left behind in the wake of his chase with Jackson Brice. While Leeds expressed his delight at merely being a part of this situation, Parker used a hammer to break the core, as Barry Hapgood advised his students to keep their fingers clear of the blades, while Parker and Leeds agreed on what to do next before doing their own traditional handshake.
 ]]
Once they had spent some time examining the Chitauri power core which Leeds could only think to call their glowy thingy, they had then encountered Herman Schultz and Randy Vale who had both arrived while they were still searching for the core through Midtown School of Science and Technology. While Parker dragged Leeds out of the way, he explained that Schultz had attempted to kill him the night before alongside Jackson Brice. Although Leeds insisted that they run and hide, Parker noted that by following them he could try and get a lead on Vulture, ignoring Leeds' pleas as he attempted to follow Schultz and Vale, as they searched through the school.
 ]]
Having eventually managed to convince a reluctant Leeds to stay put beside Tiny McKeever's chess game for his safety, Parker followed Schultz and Vale during their search, as they then made their way into Hapgood's workshop where they had just been studying. Hiding underneath a table, Parker watched as Schultz and Vale eventually gave up their search and, as they were both leaving the school, Parker then fired his Spider-Tracer onto Schultz's shoe.
 's location]]
Returning to the Parker Residence together, Parker and Leeds used the Tracer on Schultz's boot to begin following the gang's current movements as they made their way outside of New York City. While Leeds marveled at all the technology that Tony Stark had supplied Parker with, Parker himself passed the time by experimenting with the Spider-Signal and some of the other bits of tech all while Leeds had still continued closely following Schultz's movements. In boredom, Leeds asked Parker to wear his mask, finding it to be rather awesome.
 locate Vulture]]
Eventually, while Leeds was trying on the Spider-Man Mask and Parker was resting on the ceiling, they learned that Schultz and Vale had finally stopped in Maryland. While they discussed with Schultz and his gang had an evil lair, they discussed how they would get to Maryland, with Parker remembering that the Decathlon was taking place in Washington, D.C. so he could get a lift with their team who were heading out the next day for the Decathlon finals. 

#### Decathlon Trip

 's decathlon team]]
 
Seeking to get a lift to Maryland to intercept Vulture's Crew, Parker ran up to the decathlon team as they were all heading onto the bus to Washington, D.C. for the national tournament, asking to rejoin the team. Although Flash Thompson protested the idea as he had taken Parker's spot, Roger Harrington was delighted to have Parker back and immediately agreed. Thompson then reluctantly returned Parker's spot and team jacket to him.
 ]]
During the bus ride to Washington, D.C., Liz Allan quizzed the team to get them ready for Nationals, with Parker even correctly answering a question about Vibranium. However, Parker excused himself when he got a call from Happy Hogan, who wondered why he had just left New York City, having followed the tracker in the Spider-Man Suit. Parker answered that he was on a school trip and managed to convince Hogan that the situation was no big deal, although Hogan reminded Parker that he would still be watching him. 
 cleanup]]
While nearing their destination, Parker and Leeds caught sight of the wreckage of the Triskelion still present. Michelle Jones came over to them and explained that the United States Department of Damage Control was still clearing up the destruction left behind by Captain America during the Battle at the Triskelion several years prior. While Jones expressed her own conspiracy theories about these events, Parker wondered where Damage Control would take all the equipment and technology that they recovered. 
 hack into his suit]]
In their hotel room, Parker began removing the tracker from inside his Suit with Leeds' help, as he did not want Tony Stark to know that he would be following Vulture's Crew to their base. When Leeds questioned him now lying to Iron Man, Parker insisted that he was not lying but just wanted Stark to fully understand everything he could do as a hero. Parker successfully found and pried off the tracker from his suit's circuits which he placed on a lamp, leaving Hogan to track that instead.
 
Leeds then discovered that the suit had many advanced subsystems which were all currently disabled by the Training Wheels Protocol, much to Parker's frustration. He believed he did not require such limitations in the suit, complaining how Stark still treated him as a child. Parker managed to convince Leeds to override the protocol despite his friend's misgivings over the decision. Parker claimed that doing this favor for him would make Leeds his guy in the chair, while also allowing Parker to truly prove himself to Stark.
 ]]
Having seen that Herman Schultz was on the move again, Parker donned the suit under his clothes and prepared to track him down, also requesting Leeds to look after the Chitauri Energy Core while he was gone. Just as he began making his way out, Parker then encountered Allan, who along with the rest of their Decathlon team was about to sneak into the hotel pool to go swimming, with Thompson running by and slapping Parker on his behind. Parker, however, claimed he could not join him because he was going to study.
 
Despite Allan having expressed just how important winning this competition was to her and her belief that the team engaging in a rebellious activity together could boost their ability, Parker still decided to prioritize tracking down Vulture and the rest of his men. Sitting outside a window in the Spider-Man Suit, Parker wistfully watched Allan playing in the pool with Thompson, Cindy Moon and the rest, enjoying themselves as Parker remained alone, focused on his current mission. 

#### Damage Control Truck Attack

 ]]
 , this doesn't belong to you!|Spider-Man to Vulture|Spider-Man: Homecoming}}
Upon donning the Spider-Man Suit with removed restrictions, Spider-Man discovered that the suit was harboring his own personal A.I. system. Upon introducing herself to him and congratulating him on seemingly passing through the Training Wheels Protocol, the A.I. began to teach Spider-Man all about the suit's full capabilities. Spider-Man then told the A.I. about the Spider-Tracer and he was shown exactly where it was and how to find it as they traveled through Washington, D.C. to find the Tracer's location.
 ]]
Before long they located Vulture's Crew near an empty gas station, which Spider-Man mistook for their Headquarters. Using the suit's advanced function to overhear their conversation, Spider-Man then overheard Herman Schultz and Phineas Mason talking together as they discussed getting Shocker's Gauntlet from Crossbones before Spider-Man then learned that the crew intended to steal confiscated alien tech from the United States Department of Damage Control transfer trucks coming by shortly.
 ]]
As Spider-Man prepared to engage with Vulture's Crew, his new A.I. recommended new features active in his suit, only for Spider-Man to discover she meant an "instant kill mode" which he rejected, not wishing to kill anyone. The A.I. then showed Spider-Man his new Web-Shooters and it's many more advanced web-shooter combinations. However, Spider-Man was still learning, this resulted in him picking the wrong options and falling on his face before electrocuting the gas station.
 's robbery]]
Spider-Man had then witnessed the arrival of Vulture, who was using his Vulture's Exo-Suit to catch up with and attach himself to the Damage Control truck that was driving by. Spider-Man went after the truck and found Vulture had used a Matter Phase Shifter to get inside where he was stealing all of the Chitauri and Ultron based technology that he could get his hands on. Taking his bag from him, Spider-Man confronted Vulture when he was about to leave.
 ]]
Vulture, however, refused to allow Spider-Man to take his profit away from him and reattached himself to his Exo-Suit and furiously attacked Spider-Man. Spider-Man managed to dodge the attack, however, he discovered that the Webs that his A.I. had selected were useless in the fight. While Spider-Man was forced to desperately avoid all Vulture's attacks, he had then begged his A.I. to fix his webs while Vulture still furiously attempted to take his bag back.
 
During the course of the battle, Spider-Man pulled the bag back from Vulture and fell back inside the van, causing the bag to fall with him while the Matter Phase Shifter closed behind him. Not noticing that the Phase Shifter had closed, Spider-Man accidentally knocked himself unconscious when he banged his head against the ceiling in his hasty attempt to get out, allowing Vulture time to make his escape, despite still losing the bag full of stolen technology. 

#### Trapped in the Storage Vault

 ]]
 
Spider-Man eventually awoke inside the truck, as the AI informed him that he appeared to have a mild concussion from smashing his head into the truck's ceiling. Hours later, Spider-Man questioned where he was, although his A.I. was unsure, leading Spider-Man to conclude that the truck had been hijacked and taken into Vulture's headquarters, leading Spider-Man to believe that they would have to fight their way to freedom. Charging towards the doors, Spider-Man then smashed through and expected to be confronted by the rest of Vulture's crew, only to discover he was in a massive federal warehouse.
 ]]
While he looked around confused, the A.I then informed Spider-Man that he was inside the United States Department of Damage Control's Deep Storage Vault and that he would most likely not be able to leave until the following morning. At first, Spider-Man desperately attempted to force the door open to no avail, kicking it in annoyance before finally giving up and exploring the facility. While waiting, Spider-Man discussed giving the AI her own name, soon deciding on Karen which she approved of.
 ]]
Deciding to wait it out, Spider-Man then spent some time learning his different Web-Shooters combinations such as the web-grenade and web-net, ricochet web, splitter web, and web-wings, also looking at the Spider-Man Suit's upgrades which included wings. During all this time, Spider-Man made a hammock from his web-shooters and lay in it, seemingly nothing to do but just wait the night. Spider-Man talked to her about his close feelings for Liz Allan with Karen.
 
Eventually, Parker asked how many minutes have gone by, Karen had replied with thirty-seven minutes, growing impatient and he went on to explore, searching through Vulture's duffel bag he left behind. Finding Ultron's head and another purple Chitauri power core, Karen told Spider-Man that Chitauri Energy Core will explode if exposed to enough radiation. Horrified and knowing that Ned Leeds had still the core with him, Spider-Man realized his friend was in danger.
 
Spider-Man immediately began to try to get himself out of the Vault as he worked together with Karen to attempt to manually open the door by tinkering with the fuse box. Following two hundred and forty-seven attempts of using different combinations to unlock the door, Spider-Man then managed to open the door and immediately began making his journey back to Washington, D.C., while still desperately attempting to contact Leeds and inform him of the danger. 

#### Washington Monument Rescue

 
 
After managing to get out of the United States Department of Damage Control facility, Spider-Man then desperately begged Karen to track down his friends while he hitched rides on passing vehicles being unable to swing to the city. Spider-Man had continued to call Ned Leeds numerous times, but found Leeds had no signal to pick up. As he was missing, Flash Thompson took Parker's place in the Decathlon, much to Liz Allan's annoyance, although they still managed to win their competition. Parker tracked all his friends to the Washington Monument and just reached the Monument at the moment the Chitauri Energy Core exploded, causing massive damage.
 
Upon finally arriving on the scene, Spider-Man had looked up as the Monument and had found Michelle Jones sitting outside who had then informed him that all of her friends were now currently trapped inside the Monument elevator with seemingly no way out. Karen then confirmed that the elevator had just been severely damaged by the Energy Core's explosion and that it would then plummet all the way back down to the ground floor in just a short amount of time.
 ]]
With limited time to act, Spider-Man immediately began to crawl on the Monument and tried to reach the top as quickly as he can. Using his Web-Shooters, Spider-Man attempted to propel himself forward with more speed; however, he found himself becoming intimidated by the height he was now at, with Karen informed him that since he had used his only parachute from the Spider-Man Suit during his recent encounter with Vulture, if he fell off the Monument then he would very likely be killed as a result, which he did not appreciate.
 ]]
As Spider-Man reached the top of the Monument where his friends were in danger, his rescue attempt gained the attention of the local authority who dispatched a helicopter to confront him and order him away. Spider-Man attempted to explain the situation to them, but they instead started to demand Spider-Man to leave the monument and get back on the ground on the threat of being shot, however, Spider-Man sent the Spider-Tracer to find a way into the Monument.
 
Ignoring the threats, Spider-Man managed to enter the monument by jumping over the helicopter blades with the aid of the wings on the suit before then swinging back towards the monument and breaking through the windows. He barely managed to get inside in time to hold the elevator with his Web-Shooters as it started to plummet to the ground. Spider-Man managed to save his schoolmates and his teacher Roger Harrington who were trapped in the elevator.
 ]]
While Ned Leeds celebrated the rescue, Spider-Man told him to stop moving as he helped everyone to safety. However, Liz Allan fell and Spider-Man was forced to catch her mid-air and pull her back up to the safety of her friends. While hanging upside down, Spider-Man checked that Allan was safe while Karen recommended that he kiss her. However, Spider-Man's web then snapped, causing him to fall, while Flash Thompson questioned if he knew Parker. 

#### Back to New York

 
 
In the wake of the events in Washington, D.C., Parker returned to New York City where he had been delighted to see all of the new positive attention being put on Spider-Man following the success of the Rescue at the Washington Monument. As he walked down their school's hallways, Parker saw school news reports by Betty Brant and Jason Ionello discussing Spider-Man's heroic actions saving his classmates.
 discuss Spider-Man]]
While Parker was making his way through all the school's hallways, he was then greeted by Ned Leeds who questioned what it was like being famous without anyone actually knowing it was him. Parker told Leeds once again to not tell anybody the truth. Parker revealed he was not going to class, noting that he figured out Vulture was using the technology stolen from the United States Department of Damage Control to make weapons and all he had to do now was catch Vulture in the act.
 
As Parker expressed his belief that Tony Stark would soon recruit him into the Avengers for an act of great heroism, he therefore concluded he need not have to worry about attending school, just as Morita overheard and then gave him detention for planning on skipping class. In detention with Michelle Jones, Parker watched a video of Captain America before decided to walk out, with Andre Wilson not even bothering to attempt to stop Parker, who had proceeded to collect his hidden Synthetic Webbing and left the school.
 discussing Aaron Davis]]
Returned home into the Parker Residence, Parker immediately resumed his hunt for Vulture as he donned the Spider-Man Mask and spoke with Karen. Parker asked if Karen could help him identify the men he encountered under the bridge, as she revealed that she had access to video files through the Baby Monitor Protocol. Parker then watched the footage, seeing Jackson Brice and Herman Schultz as they threatened another man before Spider-Man had stepped in.
 ]]
Spider-Man had learned from Karen that the buyer was Aaron Davis, a criminal who was living in New York City and Spider-Man then went to confront him. Using the Spider-Drone to find Davis in a car park, Spider-Man proceeded to use his Web-Shooters to trap Davis to his car bonnet. At Karen's suggestion, Spider-Man put on "Intimidation Mode" which had amplified his vocal volume with voice modulation into a more intimidating presence. However, Davis soon saw through the deception, noting their previous encounter, which had Parker turn it off.
 ]]
Spider-Man demanded Davis tell him Vulture's location, insisting that he needed to know where to find the weapons and threatened Davis if he refused to tell him. Davis, however, was not intimidated and slammed his car bonnet down, making Spider-Man jump. Davis then questioned if Spider-Man had ever interrogated anyone before and then asked if Spider-Man knew about Delmar's Deli-Grocery, noting his own shock went it had been destroyed during a robbery.
 's location]] Grateful for saving him the other night when Schultz had tried to kill him, and caring for his nephew's safety, Davis informed Spider-Man about another weapons deal that would take place on involving Vulture and Mac Gargan. In his excitement at getting a lead, Spider-Man almost left before being told this was happening on the . Davis had advised Spider-Man at getting better at being intimidating before Spider-Man left Davis stuck to his car. 

#### Staten Island Ferry Incident

 
 
Following the lead given by Aaron Davis, Spider-Man raced expeditiously across New York City and had managed to sneak on board the by using the wings on his Spider-Man Suit to sour above the water and attach himself to the side of the Ferry. Spider-Man then went looking for Vulture, finding a man he assumed was the criminal speaking with Herman Schultz. He learned that they were about to deal with Mac Gargan to which Karen provided information about.
 's deal]]
During his scouting, Tony Stark called Parker with the intention of apologizing for not answering his calls and having Parker instead try to speak with Happy Hogan. While Stark was still speaking to him, however, he could see that Randy Vale was preparing to hand over the Chitauri weapons to Gargan and the other criminals, so Spider-Man was forced to hang up on the annoyed Stark in order to focus on his targets before it was too late and Gargan got away.
 
Spider-Man interrupted the deal and stealing the keys to the truck with all the Chitauri and Ultron based technology and then began fighting against the crew and Gargan's men. Spider-Man also fought against Schultz who had also gained possession of the Shocker's Gauntlet from Jackson Brice and then attempted to strike him with it. Spider-Man managed to defeat them, knocking Gargan overboard and trapping Schultz's arm, jokingly commenting that Brice had been considerably better with the Gauntlet than Schultz had been.
 ]]
Having also trapped Randy Vale with his web grenade, Spider-Man caught sight of the criminal Schultz had been speaking to earlier, assuming this was Vulture unmasked. Before Spider-Man could confront the man, however, he was then interrupted by FBI agents who had begun arresting everyone including Spider-Man who they mistook for Gargan's ally, much to Spider-Man's surprise as he tried to insist that he was not actually one of the criminals in this situation.
 ]]
This distraction was all Vulture needed to don his suit and began attacking Spider-Man and the FBI agents. While Spider-Man protected and saved the agents from the villain's attacks, Vulture freed his men and urged them to escape. Another fierce fight ensued as Vulture tried to kill Spider-Man with his advanced weaponry. Spider-Man countered by using his new Web-Shooters advanced function to even the odds, webbing Vulture to a car in an attempt to slow him down.
 gun]]
Vulture managed to free himself of Spider-Man's webbing by cutting through them with his wings and continued attacking him. Eventually, the fight resulted in Vulture's Chitauri alien weapon malfunctioning. Spider-Man tried to webbed the weapon up only for Vulture to say he was dealing with things he did not understand. The weapon had then exploded and cut the ferry in half while Spider-Man could only look on in utter horror as innocent people's lives were put in danger.
 
While Spider-Man overlooked the situation, Vulture and Schultz then managed to escape as Spider-Man desperately tried to save the people who were trapped inside the ferry which was slowly beginning to split in half. Karen quickly calculated all the strongest points of the ship and Spider-Man quickly went to work by webbing the strongest points together. By using his Web-Shooters and his enhanced speed, Spider-Man had seemingly managed to hold the ship together.
 
Taking a moment to catch his breath following his desperate attempt to save the ferry from splitting in half and sinking into the sea, Spider-Man overlooked his work as a member of the public cheered him on, only to learn that his missed one spot and the ship began collapsing once again. As the webs snapped one by one in quick succession, water began pouring inside the ferry, knocking people overboard and putting the lives of everybody still there in serious risk.
 
In complete desperation to keep people out of harm's way, Spider-Man proceeded to web up the sides of the ship and painfully held both halves of the ship by himself in a herculean effort to save the ship, but his efforts barely made a difference as the ship continued to split apart and sink. However, then Spider-Man noticed that the ship had seemingly stopped sinking and it had stopped being painful to hold the ship together. Iron Man then revealed himself and had come to rescue the civilians, taking control away from Spider-Man.
 ]]
While Spider-Man could only watch on, Iron Man proceeded to use a series of mini-thrusters from his Mark XLVII Armor to use the sides of the ship back together, getting a cheer from the same man who had cheered on Spider-Man moments earlier. Iron Man had then quickly rebuilt the ship by reforging the cutlines, ignoring Spider-Man's offers to help by claiming he had done enough already. Once the ship was repaired, Iron Man took Spider-Man away to talk in private. 

### Final Test

#### Losing His Suit

 
 
Following the resolution of the Ambush on MV Spirit of America, Parker sat on the outskirts of New York City and watched the people being rescued before Iron Man then approached him. Stark admonished Parker for his recklessness as his actions would have resulted in innocent people dying, but a frustrated Parker countered that he tried to warn Stark of the danger of Vulture and his criminal crew, but Stark had simply refused to listen to him.
 ]]
He further said that if Stark actually cared about the situation, then he would be here in person. Stark responded to this by stepping out of the Mark XLVII Armor and answered that he did listen to Parker. Stark told Parker that he was the only one who believed in him in spite of everyone else, including Happy Hogan, believing he had been crazy to recruit a kid and he was the one who tipped off the FBI about Vulture and they would have succeeded if it was not for Parker's actions.
 ]]
Then Stark demanded the Spider-Man Suit back, but Parker tearfully protested and pleaded that the suit was all he had and that he was nothing without it. Stark then replied that if he depends on the suit to be special, then he should not have it. Relenting, Parker stuttered that he has nothing else to wear if he takes off the suit, to which Stark told Parker he would take care of that. Before bringing him to the Parker Residence, Stark then bought Parker a shirt and pink pajamas.
 ]]
Getting home, Parker found Aunt May frustrated and worried for him, as she explained how she had been calling everywhere for Parker's whereabouts, including police stations within New York City and the mother of Ned Leeds' as she had learned Parker had been skipping classes and detention before witnessing the incident on the Ferry on the news. Noting how she knew he left the hotel room in Washington, D.C. and sneaked out their home each night but did not know why.
 ]]
Desperate for answers, May demanded to know what he has been doing every night without her knowledge. In tears, Parker covered it up by explaining that the reason he had seemingly been rebelling was that he had lost the Stark Industries' Internship, claiming that despite how hard he had worked, he had managed to screw it up. While Parker sadly sat down, May believed his story and simply comforted her nephew, while Parker apologized for getting her so worried about him. May then finished their conversation by noting that she used to sneak out as well and recommending that Parker take a shower as she claimed he smelled like garbage. 

#### Return to School

 's office]]
 
While being initially demoralized by the recent events with Vulture and the loss of his Spider-Man Suit, Parker chose the accept his forced retirement and rationalized that his goal of joining the Avengers was doomed to fail due to their permanent move to the Avengers Compound. As he accepted that he should return to his daily life at Midtown School of Science and Technology, Parker was then sent to the office of Principal Morita who insisted that Parker was a good kid but gave him considerably more detention, much to Ned Leeds' relief as he assumed Parker was expelled.
 
As demanded by Principal Morita, Parker was sent to sit into more detentions, with only Coach Andre Wilson and Michelle Jones for keeping herself company, Jones drew her sketches of Parker looking sad to entertain herself. However, the time away from being Spider-Man had allowed Parker to improve in his schoolwork, specifically in Spanish while he and Leeds finished the they had worked on for several months, much to their considerable satisfaction.
 ]]
With their upcoming homecoming celebration coming soon, Parker had begun to prepare himself for the celebration. In school, he met up with Liz Allan, as he talked to her and apologized for missing the Decathlon final in Washington, D.C., although Allan insisted that her near death experience had also caused her to reevaluate her priorities. Parker then finally confessed that he liked Allan, which she admitted to already knowing, claiming that Parker was terrible at keeping secrets, making Parker chuckle. Building up all his courage, Parker learned Allan had been too busy handling the celebration to find a date, as Parker then took the chance to ask her out.
 to go to homecoming]]
To Parker's great surprise, Allan accepted his offer. Delighted and suddenly overcome with awkwardness, Parker commented on how Principal Morita had given him considerable amounts of detention before noting that he was currently walking the wrong way to class. As he walked past Allan and back towards his next lesson, Parker could not help but have a massive smile on his face as his attraction to Allan was finally confirmed to be mutually shared by her.
 ]]
Still delighted, Parker hurriedly returned to the Parker Residence and immediately asked Aunt May for her assistance to get ready for the homecoming dance to ensure that he was able to impress Allan. With the help of May, Parker had learned to dress for the celebration which included spraying himself with some questionable aftershave and learning how to correctly tie a tie, which Parker had struggled to figure out until finally checking with May that he got it right.
 ]]
May also assisted Parker in learning how to dance and, although he found it quite awkward, the support and care he got from his Aunt allowed Parker to relax as he prepared himself for the dance. Parker also wrapped up a flower corsage which he had intended to give to Allan as a gift. On the evening for Homecoming, May drove Parker to the Toomes Residence in order to pick up his date, as he prepared himself for the enjoyable evening with the beautiful Allan. 

#### Vulture's Secret

 ]]
 
Parker headed to the Toomes Residence and then rang the doorbell, nervously waiting for Liz Allan's parents to open the door and greet him. Much to his dread, Adrian Toomes opened the door, who Parker had immediately recognized as Vulture having once seen his face during the Ambush on MV Spirit of America, Parker was on guard while the unaware Toomes greeted Parker and welcomed him into his home, commenting on what a strong grip Parker had when they shook hands.
 's secrets]]
While the confused and quietly terrified Parker made his way through the house, he tried to hide his displeasure from Adrian as well as the revelation that his date's father was the man he has been hunting all this time. As Doris Toomes also greeted him, Adrian noted that Parker looked pale and jokingly offered him a whiskey or scotch, which Parker then turned down by noting that he was too young to drink, which Adrian confirmed was the correct answer to say to him.
 ]]
They were then joined by Liz Allan who showed off her dress intended for the party, with Adrian commenting on how beautiful she was, while Parker was so taken aback by the truth about Liz's father that he could barely bring himself to speak. As they prepared to leave, Doris insisted on taking some pictures, during which Parker to hardly keep his horrified eyes away from Adrian. After awkwardly taken pictures with Liz, Adrian then agreed to drive the two to the celebration.
 by Adrian Toomes]]
As they drove to Midtown School of Science and Technology, Parker was asked by Adrian about what he planned to do once he finished school, with Liz noting how he had a Stark Industries internship and got to hang out with Tony Stark and Spider-Man, which seemed to interest Adrian. While they drove, Adrian questioned if he and Parker had ever met before, noting that even Parker's voice was familiar to him, with Liz noting that Parker also did Decathlon with her.
 
As the conversation continued, Liz casually noted how Parker had disappeared the night of her party and during Washington, D.C. Hearing this, Toomes realized these were the times Spider-Man had intercepted his arms deal and attempted robbery and was able to deduce that Parker was Spider-Man based on this information as well as the similarity with Parker's voice. Parker, however, attempted to remain calm while Adrian looked him directly in the eyes.
 ]]
Stopping outside the school, Adrian told his daughter to get inside first while he has a dad talk with Parker, who became considerably more nervous being alone in the car with Vulture. Once alone, Toomes showed his true colors by pulling a gun outside of the glove compartment and asked Parker if Liz knew that he was Spider-Man to which Parker declined, as Toomes noted that he had secrets of his own that he still intended to keep quiet from his own family.
 ' threats]]
Noting how important his family was to him, Toomes warned Parker to stay away from his business as he told Parker that he was grateful that he saved his daughter's life and for that, he gave him one final chance to walk away with his life if he had agreed that he would not interfere with Vulture's upcoming heist. Toomes gave Parker one final warning that if he chose to pursue him, he would kill him as well as everyone he loved, including Aunt May which terrified Parker.
 
As Parker had begun heading toward the celebration, he was in deep misgivings, as he could stay and be with Liz, which was what he still wanted, but that would mean leaving Vulture to steal Chitauri as well as Ultron based technology from Stark Industries which would mean more weapons being sold in New York City that will inevitably result with innocent people dying. He could pursue Vulture and bring him to justice, but that would mean Liz would lose her father.
 that he has to leave]]
Ultimately, Parker chose his responsibility as Spider-Man. He entered the dance and found Liz with Michelle Jones and Ned Leeds among others, but Parker walked past his friends and straight towards Liz, who assumed her father had threatened him. Parker apologized to Liz, telling her that she deserved better and then left her. Parker then grabbed his original Spider-Man Suit and Web-Shooters that he had stashed beneath the lockers and then ran after Vulture. 

#### Shocker's Ambush

 ]]
 
Hastily putting on the original homemade Spider-Man Suit, Spider-Man then ran outside only to be ambushed by Shocker, who had been tasked by Vulture to kill Spider-Man if he had broken their agreement. Spider-Man was unprepared for his presence and was struck directly in the face with some considerable force, with his enemy's attack causing him to lose both of his Web-Shooters, which had put him at a strong disadvantage.
 
While Shocker mocked his homemade costume, Spider-Man made a desperate attempt to reclaim his Web-Shooters, only for Shocker to use his Gauntlet to knock a school bus into Spider-Man. Shocker was relentless and kept attacking Spider-Man, smashing him through a school bus while commenting on how powerful his Gauntlet was, which Spider-Man fell through the bus and found some gum trapped under the seats which Spider-Man commented were disgusting.
 ]]
As Shocker overturned the bus with another powerful strike from his Gauntlet, Spider-Man was rolled over and crawled out, dazed and in considerable pain from the beatings. On the ground, Spider-Man had questioned why Adrian Toomes had sent him here, to which Shocker replied that he would never know. Before Shocker could strike once again, Spider-Man was saved by the timely arrival of Ned Leeds who managed to stop Shocker's attack with the Web-Shooter.
 ]]
Immediately taking the advantage, Spider-Man defeated Shocker and webbed him against a school bus, leaving him to be arrested by the NYPD. In a haste, Spider-Man had then informed Leeds about Vulture's true identity as Liz Allan's father and told him that they needed to inform Tony Stark of the situation. As Spider-Man swung away from the scene, he told Leeds to call Happy Hogan and to keep track of his phone so they could still stay within contact.
 's car]]
Seeking some transportation to get across New York City to find Vulture, Spider-Man found and stopped Flash Thompson who was on his way to the homecoming dance with his date while complaining about the dinner they had just eaten. Spider-Man then stopped Thompson by jumping onto the hood of the car and demanded him to get out of the car and hand over both the keys and his phone, using a gravely deeper voice to appear more intimidating. Despite Thompson insisting that it was his father's car, Spider-Man still then drove away in Thompson's car, briefly crashing into a rack of bikes, much to Thompson's horror.
 's location]]
While driving, Parker used Thompson's phone to call Leeds, telling him that he left his own phone in Toomes' car for them to track. While Parker continued struggling to drive, Hogan refused to take Leeds' call as he was busy emptying Avengers Tower into the Stark Cargo Plane, at which point Parker realized that was what Vulture had planned to hijack. They then tracked Vulture to his Headquarters as Parker sped towards his location, accidentally crashing the car. 

#### Confronting Vulture

 ]]
 
With the aid of Ned Leeds, Spider-Man was able to quickly track down Adrian Toomes to an old warehouse. He went inside, using his webbing to glide himself down slowly and discovered computers with information all about Avengers Tower and the Stark Cargo Plane, as well as also finding Vulture's Exo-Suit. While still exploring the warehouse, Spider-Man eventually found Toomes waiting for him by his work bench.
 ]]
As Spider-Man questioned if Toomes was surprised to see him alive after sending Shocker to kill him outside the school, Toomes replied calmly said that he admired Spider-Man's determination, noting that he could see why Liz Allan liked him. As Spider-Man proceeded to use his Web-Shooters to trap Toomes' hand onto the table, he had then demanded to know why Toomes could do all of this to his family; Toomes replied that he was only doing his crimes for them, so as to support them.
 's reasoning]]
Spider-Man insisted that selling the Chitauri and Ultron weapons on the black market to the criminals like Mac Gargan was wrong, while Toomes countered that men like Tony Stark earned their own fortune with Stark Industries by selling weapons and there was no difference between his crimes and those that Stark had committed. While he had continued talking, Toomes insisted that people like Stark and the rest of the Avengers did not care about working men like them.
 ]]
As Spider-Man asked why he was telling him this, Toomes revealed that he wanted him to understand his views and could also remotely control his Vulture's Exo-Suit, as his wings seemingly began attacking Spider-Man. He dodged all of the attacks and taunted Toomes only for him to reply that he was not actually aiming for him. The wings smashed through the last supporting beam of the warehouse and debris collapsed upon Spider-Man. Vulture had then put on his suit and left him to die underneath the rubble.
 
Beneath the rubble, Parker awoke and discovered that he was now trapped between two large pieces of debris. Unable to move and barely able to breathe, Parker attempted to free himself by mustering all of his strength, and when this failed, the now terrified Parker then desperately cried for someone to help him, only for his plea for help going unanswered, leaving him alone. Struggling and in pain, Parker spotted his Spider-Man Mask in the water and his own reflection.
 
Just then, he notices his reflection being overlapped by his mask. Remembering Stark's words to him following the Ambush on MV Spirit of America, Parker had begun to finally understand what his former mentor meant when he took the suit away from him: that with or without the suit, he was the Spider-Man, and the power was all his own. Encouraged by this realization, Spider-Man regained his resolve, mustered his stamina, and began to painfully push all the rubble off of him. Finally, he broke free of his entrapment and reclaimed his mask to determinedly pursued Vulture. 

#### Stark Cargo Plane Hijacking

 ]]
 
Upon escaping, Spider-Man managed to find Vulture who stood on the outskirts of the destroyed warehouse keeping a close watch on Avengers Tower. Just as Vulture took off, Spider-Man leapt towards him and webbed onto to him as he flew toward the Stark Cargo Plane which had just taken off with several million dollars' worth of equipment. Feeling slight air drag but unaware of Spider-Man's presence, Vulture continued with his hijacking.
 's robbery]]
As they soared higher and higher, Spider-Man looked down at New York City below as they disappeared through the clouds. When Vulture finally reached the plane, he used the upgrade by Tinkerer and attached himself to crawl into the plane. Spider-Man discovered that his Web-Shooters were completely useless at such high altitudes in the air and while traveling at such fast speeds. With no other recourse, he instead attempted to remove Vulture's Exo-Suit that was covering the hole made into the plane.
 's attacks]]
Not long after Spider-Man managed to nudge the Exo-Suit, it caused the air to rush into the plane through the Matter Phase Shifter, causing Vulture to learn about his presence and abort his hijacking. Vulture then responded by donning his Exo-Suit and flying around the plane, as Spider-Man commented that his homecoming was anything but typical since he was fighting his date's father as another fierce fight happened in the sky between Spider-Man and Vulture.
 
Lacking his Stark made Spider-Man Suit's advanced capabilities, Spider-Man could only improvise and dodged Vulture's relentless attacks. The fight then resulted in extensive damage to the cargo plane as Spider-Man was almost thrown into one of the plane's engines, although he was able to use his Web-Shooters to block up the blades and save his own life, before then kicking away the engine while Vulture continued to fly around him, ready to attack him once again.
 ]]
Crawling back onto the roof of the plane, Spider-Man managed to dodge out of the way of Vulture's attack, as he began furiously attempting to use his razor-sharp Vulture Wings to slash at Spider-Man and either kill him or knock him overboard or into the engine. Spider-Man managed to keep avoiding the attacks, webbing himself onto the plane to stay on board, as Vulture was then informed by the Tinkerer that his attacks had caused some major damage.
 ]]
Seeing the plane was going down, Spider-Man realized to his horror that the plane was about to crash into New York City as thousands of people would be in serious danger if they crashed. While Vulture was still desperately attempting to steal the Arc Reactors and other technology from the plane to make his profit, Spider-Man then used his Web-Shooters and strength to change the course of the plane, barely managing to avoid crashing into several skyscrapers.
 as it crashes]]
He succeeded in changing direction enough to save the lives of the people in New York; however, before long Spider-Man's webbing had snapped, causing him to be thrown over onto the other wing as he noticed that they were now heading directly towards Coney Island. Spider-Man was then unable to do anything more as the plane then crashed into the beach while being torn apart upon impact as both Spider-Man and Vulture were thrown onto the beach. 

#### Duel at Coney Island

 
 
Exhausted and injured from the crash landing, Spider-Man had been forced to take off his mask in order to breath amidst the scorched air around the crash site. Without the mask on, however, all of Spider-Man's senses had then become overwhelming as he had looked across the burning Stark Cargo Plane. This momentary distraction had allowed Vulture to take him by surprise. Despite all the damage to his adversary's wings, Vulture maintained a clear advantage over Spider-Man while still being the least injured.
 ]]
Vulture then engaged furiously in his attacking the injured Spider-Man, who barely managed to avoid the attacks as he struggled to shoot his Web-Shooters and get a clear shot at Vulture. Despite Spider-Man's best efforts to defend himself from Vulture's attacks, due to being already exhausted, he was unable to focus, and Vulture heavily injured him by pinning Spider-Man to the ground and hitting him repeatedly until Spider-Man caught a fourth punch before launching him high up into the air.
 ]]
As they flew into the air, Vulture attempted to throw Spider-Man into a steel pipe after the latter broke free from his talons, only for Spider-Man to remain airborne due to his webs as they had a clash in mid-air after Spider-Man struck his helmet and landed on him. However, Vulture managed to gain the upper hand when he swiftly dropped and slammed Spider-Man into the ground multiple times, greatly injuring him against the sand banks. Being slightly conscious, Spider-Man was held up off the ground by Vulture's Wings, but as Toomes was about to kill him, he spotted a nearby crate filled with Stark Industries' Arc Reactors that he could just take.
 ]]
Vulture then left the wounded Spider-Man onto the ground, continuing his mission and went to grab the Stark Industries technology instead to ensure his fortune. Upon is lift-off, Spider-Man then noticed that Vulture's wings were about to explode due to both the radiation overload from the Arc Reactors and the wings' heavy damage from the plane crash and desperately attempted to save him by webbing onto his wings and trying to pull him back. However, Vulture simply refused to listen to Spider-Man's warnings and instead cut the web and then attempted to fly away to his freedom.
 out of the fire]]
Finally, as Spider-Man had predicted, Vulture's wings did explode as he crashed back down to the ground in flames. Desperate to save the father of Liz Allan, Spider-Man then went through the flames and managed to find Toomes lying injured, but alive. Spider-Man tried to lift the rubble only suffer a slight burn and attempted it again by letting his hands go under the sand. Spider-Man finally managed to save Toomes, as they both rested and caught their breath back.
 being arrested]]
With Vulture finally defeated, Spider-Man then webbed him to the remaining piece of cargo with a note revealing that this was indeed Vulture, with an included apology for what had happened to Tony Stark's own airplane during the clash. Spider-Man then rested on top of a rollercoaster and watched as the New York City Police Department eventually arrived onto the scene, along with Happy Hogan, where they soon found and then arrested Toomes for his many crimes. 

### Hero of New York

#### Returning to School

 recount their efforts]]
 
With Vulture finally defeated and being taken away into custody, everything began to return to normal for Parker again, as he then returned to Midtown School of Science and Technology. While walking through the hallways with Ned Leeds, Parker listened as his best friend continued to recount their fight against Shocker, in which Leeds had successfully saved Parker from being killed with Shocker's Gauntlet by using Spider-Man's Web-Shooters to stop him.
 ]]
However, as a direct result of Vulture's arrest and the reveal of his criminal activities, Liz Allan and her mother decided to move away from New York City. As Allan was about to leave school, Parker went over to her and apologized for running out of the Homecoming dance, but once again couldn't offer an explanation. Parker gave his condolences to Allan over her father's arrest and learned she was moving to Oregon, as Adrian did not want his family to see his trial. Allan said goodbye to Parker and expressed her hope that he could sort out his life, leaving him saddened at her departure.
 
In the academic decathlon meeting, Roger Harrington presented the team with their trophy from the Washington, D.C. Nationals, with the group giving a big round of applause for their victory. However, due to Allan moving away, Harrington noted that they now needed a new team leader and revealed that she would be succeeded by Michelle Jones, much to everyone's approval, including Parker's. A thankful Jones mentioned that she preferred her friends to call her "MJ."
 ]]
During practice, Parker got a text from Happy Hogan to meet in the bathroom for a private conversation. Upon reading this, Parker then excused himself from their Decathlon team meeting. Just as he prepared to leave though, Jones questioned where Parker was going and what he was hiding. Parker was momentarily nervous that Jones suspected the truth, only for her to then jokingly claim that she actually didn't care about his life, much to his relief.
 ]]
Meeting Hogan in the bathroom as requested, Parker then listened as Hogan apologized for ignoring his calls and not treating him seriously. Hogan also thanked Parker for saving the Stark Cargo Plane from Vulture, noting that if it was not for Spider-Man he might have lost his job at Stark Industries. They were interrupted by Tiny McKeever using the toilet, leading to an awkward moment before Hogan explained that Tony Stark now wanted to speak with Parker upstate. 

#### Rejecting the Avengers

 ]]
 
Parker was then brought to the Avengers Compound where Parker marveled at all of the advanced technology that the facility possessed, watching as a Quinjet took off from their grounds. There, Happy Hogan brought Parker to meet with Tony Stark who was waiting for him, with Stark then requesting a private talk with Parker, only for Hogan to still insisting on staying close by them regardless.
 ]]
As they then began walking together, Stark had apologized for taking away Parker's Spider-Man Suit though added that he had it coming following the Ambush on MV Spirit of America and the fallout of that, claiming that it was the perfect tough love moment that Parker had needed. Stark then admitted that he was wrong about Parker's capabilities and that he was worthy to join the Avengers, which Stark had known had always been the ultimate dream for Parker.
 ]]
Noting that there were fifty reporters who were still waiting for them, Stark then proudly displayed a new Iron Spider Armor for Parker to put on. He then told him that if Parker was ready, he would introduce all the world to the newest member of the Avengers, Spider-Man. While Parker was excited at the prospect of joining the Avengers and working with his mentor, his conflict with Vulture had given him a newfound maturity.
 's offer]]
While Stark had begun explaining how Parker becoming an Avenger would work, noting he would stay next door to Vision, Parker, however, knowing that he had more to learn before he was ready to join the Avengers, politely declined Stark's offer and simply stated that he preferred to stay on the ground for the time of being a friendly neighborhood Spider-Man, staying within New York City helping the people in need, much to the considerable surprise of Stark.
 ]]
His mentor respected his decision and agreed to let Parker go back to New York, with Hogan telling him to wait in the car while he had a private word with Stark while Parker was gone. As Parker was about to leave, he turned and asked if this was simply a secret test of his character and that there were not really fifty reporters waiting for him to be announced as the latest member of the Avengers, as Stark had replied that it was and he passed, leaving Parker to walk away.
 in his room]]
Unknown to Parker, Stark was serious about his desire to add Spider-Man to the Avengers, leaving Pepper Potts and Stark to instead tell the reports that they had been invited to announce their engagement, as Hogan gave Stark the ring, he had been carrying with him for years. Once he returned home to the Parker Residence, Parker then discovered that Stark had returned his second suit, leaving it in a bag on Parker's bed with a note saying that it belonged to him. Excited at the prospect of finally returning onto the streets and protecting the people of New York City from criminals, Spider-Man put on the suit again, ready to resume his heroics.
 ]]
Unbeknownst to him at first, however, Aunt May saw him putting on the suit, watching in Parker's doorway as he had pulled off his mask and then loudly cursing as she questioned what was going on, much to Parker's utter shock and horror as he now had no way of explaining this. Parker would inform his aunt of his duel identity, and she came to accept it, even supporting his work as Spider-Man. 
 ]]
Despite Parker not having an actual Stark Industries internship and simply using it as a reason to excuse his absence when operating as Spider-Man, Stark officially offered one to him. Shortly after, Parker met with Stark and the two posed for a photo as Stark awarded him with a certificate for completing the internship. 

### Infinity War

#### New York Invasion

 in New York City]]
 
Two years later, in May 2018, en route to a school field trip to the , Parker's senses alerted him to danger, prompting him to glance outside the school bus' window. Spotting the appearance of an alien warship hovering over New York City, Parker decided to respond to the potential threat.
 ]]
Looking around the bus and deciding to investigate, Parker quickly asked Ned Leeds to create a distraction for him. Leeds spotted the Q-Ship out Parker's window and began to panic loudly, causing all the other students to look out their windows to see what was going on. The distraction worked and Parker equipped his Web-Shooters before he left through an emergency escape hatch. Parker booted up his Spider-Man Suit to conceal his identity and swung off the bridge to head to the conflict and figure out what was actually going on in the city.
 ]]
Quickly arriving in Greenwich Village, Spider-Man arrived just in time to catch a blow from Cull Obsidian's hammer aimed at Iron Man and greeted him with an uplifting remark. However, Obsidian quickly grabbed Spider-Man and threw him across the park he had found Stark in. 
 ]]
As Iron Man continued to fight, Spider-Man got up from the ground and joined him in battle, questioning him about what the alien's problem was, Iron Man responded by telling him that Obsidian was "from space and wanted a necklace from a wizard." As he leaped onto Obsidian, Spider-Man was caught by his hammer and was thrown again. Iron Man and Spider-Man tried to fight against Obsidian but suffered from some trouble subduing him.
 in the city]]
Interrupted, Spider-Man noticed Ebony Maw levitating across the city with Doctor Strange. After Iron Man told him to save Doctor Strange, Spider-Man pursued towards Maw, web-swinging across the city, but was hurt by Maw's use of his power by telekinetically using a billboard to throw at him. Spider-Man quickly recovered and followed Maw, managing to shoot his web and pulled Strange from the air, swinging away from Maw before he could catch him.
 ]]
Swinging around the city with an unconscious Doctor Strange, Spider-Man had pulled away when the Q-Ship used its gravitational pull. Spider-Man used his best effort to rescue the sorcerer by using a lamp post to hold on and used his strength to stay put. Spider-Man was cut off-guard when Ebony Maw telekinetically pulled him away from the lamp post and was subsequently pulled toward the alien warship. Spider-Man was unable to retrieve Strange and called upon Iron Man that he was getting himself in a difficult situation. Spider-Man was stuck at the warship and managed to crawl up at the side of the ring.
 ]]
After finishing his battle, Iron Man managed to locate the Q-Ship and fly towards the sky, contacting Spider-Man to stay put and, and he deployed the Item 17A from the Avengers Compound. Beginning to run out of oxygen, Spider-Man removed his mask as he was unable to breathe as much as he could. Spider-Man told Iron Man that he must save the wizard as he was told by him, but Iron Man retorted his statement that he would not be able to breathe as the ship moved upward.
 ]]
As he exhaustively started to pass out, Spider-Man was nearly suffocated as the ship left Earth's atmosphere and fell off the ship as he could not breathe anymore. Falling down, Spider-Man was rescued by the intervention of Iron Man, who summoned the Iron Spider Armor. As the suit manifested around him with nanotech particles, Spider-Man swiftly recovered with an acrobatic landing and was able to breathe and contact Iron Man, telling him that his new suit smelled like a new car.
 ]]
As Iron Man flew above him, Spider-Man was taken away as he was told, letting F.R.I.D.A.Y. quickly deploy his parachute from the back. Spider-Man angrily shouted as the parachute took him away from the ship. Spider-Man webbed at the side of the Q-Ship and intensely held onto it. Spider-Man then attached himself to the wall of the ship and entered inside of a vault. As the vault closed, Spider-Man contemplated whether he should have stayed on the bus. 

#### Rescue of Doctor Strange

 ]]
 
As the Q-Ship made its way to the planet of Titan, Spider-Man spotted Iron Man and the Cloak of Levitation at the rendezvous point of the ship. Iron Man was quickly startled as Parker unmasked himself and tried to calm him down knowing what he was going to say. Stark was furious with Parker for following him through the ship, as the young hero attempted to explain himself.
 ]]
Retracting his statement, Parker stated that it was a long way down from home and his suit was incredibly intuitive. Putting in technical terms, Parker said that it was mostly Stark's fault for letting him on the ship. Stark angrily asked him to retract his statement which Parker took back what he said. Parker had to tell him that he should stay with him, but Stark had to tell him that he needed to think his situation, to which Parker retracted, saying he did think his plan through.
 ]]
Trying to be reasonable, Parker told Stark that you can't be a friendly neighborhood Spider-Man if there's no neighborhood. As Stark was stunned by his logic, Parker said that while his analogy didn't make sense, he was able to convince Stark to let him stay with him. After Stark agreed, Spider-Man walked over the edge and was asked to make himself useful and decided on how to rescue Doctor Strange below. After a moment of thinking, Parker came up with a strategy to save Strange, which was inspired by the movie .
 ]]
Once Strange was further tortured, Spider-Man waited as Stark quietly went behind Ebony Maw to distract and surprise him, destroying the hull of the ship that can suck into the vacuum of space, leaving Maw to be subsequently killed. Noticing Strange being pulled away, Spider-Man narrowly managed to shoot a web at Strange and reached over a pole, aggressively hanging onto it. However, once the pole broke off, Spider-Man quickly fell down towards the hole.
 ]]
Suddenly, Spider-Man unexpectedly activated his new suit's spider legs and managed to hang off from the hole on the ship. Spider-Man happily saved Strange from near death. As he was hanging on, Spider-Man looked at his newfound spider legs in question. Spider-Man pulled Strange inside the ship, jumping upward with his spider legs, long enough for Iron Man to seal it. After reviving the sorcerer, Parker gave greeting to the Cloak of Levitation with a handshake to which it goes away, leaving Parker to sarcastically leave it be.
 ]]
Strange argued with Stark for nearly putting his life at risk. As they argued Stark contracted that he saved him in a ship with no backup, Parker then recalled himself to be back up. Stark disagreed and told him that he was a stowaway. Strange wondered if Parker was Stark's ward, but Parker clarified that he was not, and introduced himself to Doctor Strange, who returned the gesture; however, Parker mistook Strange's proper title for his superhero name.
 by Tony Stark]]
Slowly walking towards the ship and listening to the conversation, Parker watched as Stark and Strange discussed and argued about how to confront their enemy, Thanos. After debating on what they should take into consideration, Strange reluctantly agreed to help confront Thanos. As Stark walked in front of him, Parker was formally knighted by him and was officially declared as a member of the Avengers, much to his delight. 

#### Meeting the Guardians

 ]]
 
Arriving at their destination, Parker assisted Tony Stark with steering the Q-Ship with an arm piece and attempted to safely land on Titan. Parker tried to turn the ship around from deserted buildings but ended up crashing into them. Doctor Strange protected Parker and Stark from crash-landing the ship, by shielding them through holographic Tao Mandalas.
 and Doctor Strange]]
After crash-landing the Q-Ship, Parker appeared upside down before Strange and Stark and told them that if an alien implanted eggs in his chest and he ate one of them, he was sorry. Stark angrily told him to never say anything pop culture related and to stop talking, leading Parker to state that he was trying to tell them that something was coming at them.
 ]]
They were then attacked by a group of aliens and a bomb was detonated in front of them, in which they quickly moved out of the way. Parker was then startled by Mantis, who tried to get near him to put him to sleep with her powers, and webbed her up in fear of her planting eggs in him. Parker tried to get away but was attacked by Peter Quill. Dodging away, Parker avoided the many lasers that were shot at by Quill's Quad Blasters and attempted to attack him with his Iron Spider legs, but was subdued by the electrical bolas that vigorously shocked him.
 they are the Avengers]]
As the brief scuffle ended at a stalemate, Parker was held at gunpoint by Quill. Stark captured and pinned down Drax the Destroyer after. Quill then threatened to kill Parker and asked Stark where Gamora was, to which Stark replied that he had no idea who he was talking about. Strange then asked what master they served, wondering if they worked for Thanos. Quill told them they did not work for Thanos, but wanted to kill him, and then asked who they were. Parker replied that they were the Avengers and Mantis recognized the name, mentioning Thor. Stark asked if they knew Thor and Quill said they did and that he was not good-looking, something that Parker disagreed with. 

#### Making a Plan

 's team]]
 , the movie?" "Exactly like Footloose! Is it still the greatest movie in history?" "It never was.|Spider-Man and Star-Lord|Avengers: Infinity War}}
After forming an alliance and leaving the ruined Q-Ship, Quill measured Titan's gravitational pull, determining it was off its axis. Mantis began testing the gravity by leaping up and down, much to Parker's confusion and exasperation. As Stark tried to come up with a plan to stop Thanos, Drax yawned in interruption, which irritated Stark. Star-Lord explained that listening was not what they would do, and Parker questioned what exactly the Guardians would do. Mantis explained what they would do in a comprehensive statement, leaving both Parker and Stark completely dumbfounded.
 about ]]
Stark told Star-Lord to get his team together and as they were trying to come up with a plan, Star-Lord wanted to come up with a different plan, to which Drax brought up the time he saved the galaxy with a dance-off. Parker wondered if it was like the movie and Star-Lord was thoroughly happy to say that it was. Star-Lord asked Parker if the film was the greatest movie back on Earth, but Parker told him that it never was. 

#### Battle of Titan

 ]]
 
As Iron Man and Star-Lord started to bicker, Mantis told Stark that Doctor Strange was doing something odd. Strange revealed that he had used the Time Stone to see into the future to find a way for them to win; revealing to Stark that despite the extreme number of ways they would lose, there was a single timeline in which they were successful. Eventually, Thanos arrived and revealed to Strange that Titan was his homeworld.
 multiple times]]
As Spider-Man and the rest of his allies sneaked up on Thanos, a fierce battle ensued, as Spider-Man launched webbing into Thanos' face and then struck him in the face. Strange covered Thanos' hand with the Cloak of Levitation and used his Eldritch Magic to open portals for Spider-Man to attack him repeatedly: However, Thanos quickly immobilized Spider-Man and, angered by the provocations, threw him at Strange and the two fell onto the ground.
 ' Gauntlet]]
Shortly, Spider-Man and his allies were joined by Nebula and were able to subdue Thanos. Iron Man told him to help him remove the Infinity Gauntlet. While Thanos was pinned down, the alliance nearly succeeded until Nebula deduced that her sister had died, which caused Quill to become angry. Quill attacked Thanos and ruined Mantis' control, just as Spider-Man nearly pulled the Gauntlet out of Thanos' hand.
 ]]
Thanos regained control, pulled the Gauntlet back and tossed Mantis away. Spider-Man noticed her being flung across and rescued her. Thanos then proceeded to attack the rest of the alliance by throwing debris from a nearby moon, crashing it towards Titan. Spider-Man swung around the fallen meteors from the moon while holding onto Mantis, avoiding the many fiery ballistic inbound, random debris, and massive pillars that were floating in any possible direction.
 ' lives]]
Swinging onto a still pillar, Spider-Man managed to web up Mantis to safety and swiftly saved Quill, Nebula and Drax, as they were falling uncontrollably, webbing across there locality and attach them up to a cliff. As he was talking, Spider-Man became flustered with himself that he could not remember any of the Guardians' names, before setting them down safely. 

#### Thanos' Victory

 off the ground]]
 
On Titan, Parker and the remaining members of the Guardians of the Galaxy had finally recovered from their attack with Thanos. Parker then arrived in the area where Doctor Strange and Tony Stark had suffered from their battle. Standing over Stark, Parker helped him by lifting him so that he could stand up on his feet after he suffered from his injuries in a gruesome duel with the Mad Titan.
 his upcoming demise]]
Once Thanos completed the Infinity Gauntlet and snapped his fingers, Parker watched his allies on Titan disintegrate into ashes, firstly appointing towards the Guardians of the Galaxy members. Talking to Stark, Strange spoke on behalf of him, saying there was no other way that he could have ultimately saved the universe. Starting to feel weaker, Parker spoke to Stark, as he turned around to see what had happened.
 ]]
Walking slowly, Parker muttered Stark's surname and said that he did not feel so good and realized that he was almost fading away. Terrified, Parker did not understand what was happening and clutched onto Stark. Parker was sadly tearing up and told Stark that he didn't want to die. Visibly shocked, Stark stayed by Parker's side but was helpless as Parker muttered one final apology before disintegrating into dust. 

#### Battle of Earth

 ]]
 
On October 17, 2023, as a result of the Blip, Parker was restored to life and he woke up from unconsciousness, unaware of what had happened. He was met by Doctor Strange, who informed him that five years had passed and that they were needed back on Earth.
 ' army]]
After Strange contacted Wong to gather allies from across the universe, Strange transported Parker, Peter Quill, Drax, and Mantis via Inter-Dimensional Portal to the destroyed Avengers Compound. Parker joined the Avengers and stood behind Steve Rogers as he gave the rallying cry. He then prepared himself to fight against an alternate Thanos and his armies, which included Chitauri, Sakaarans, Outriders, and the Black Order.
 ]]
During the battle, Spider-Man used his webs to pull Cull Obsidian back to prevent him from harming Tony Stark. After Scott Lang, in Giant form, crushed Obsidian with his enlarged foot, Parker removed his mask and helped Stark stand up on his feet. Parker told Stark about turning into dust before passing out, further noting that Strange was there with him and began to wake him up to tell the rest that they need him. While talking, he was taken by surprise when Stark hugged him and returned the hug while commenting that it felt nice. 

#### Protecting the Gauntlet

 ]]
 
After Hawkeye gave Black Panther the Nano Gauntlet to protect it, Spider-Man swung in and called out to Black Panther, who was trapped by Ebony Maw. Black Panther then threw it up and Spider-Man shot a web strand at it. Once Spider-Man had taken the Nano Gauntlet and landed onto an Outrider, he then activated 'Instant Kill' mode to impale countless Outriders. Despite defeating many Outriders, Spider-Man had a hard time handling them in packs, knowing he did not have much leverage against them.
 
After Spider-Man called for assistance, Captain America noticed the Outriders attacking him and hurled Mjølnir at Parker, who hung onto the hammer with a web strand, but he began to fall when a shot from the Sanctuary II, which alternate Thanos had ordered to rain fire, severed the web strand. Pepper Potts, who was wearing her Mark XLIX Armor, caught him and dropped him off onto Valkyrie's steed, Warsong. Parker attempted to introduce himself to Valkyrie, but a shot from the Sanctuary II threw him off the steed and onto the ground.
 ]]
Spider-Man then tried to run away from the upcoming fire, but was interrupted with a blast, sending him flying across the field. After noticing incoming fire from above that were shooting down at many people below, Parker took cover under the tempest of energy blasts from Thanos' ship, but the ship's guns turned towards Captain Marvel, who had entered the Earth's atmosphere and destroyed the Sanctuary II. Rogers asked Danvers to help transport the Infinity Stones over to Luis' Van.
 ]]
While still protecting the Nano Gauntlet, Parker noticed Danvers landing in front of him and nervously introduced himself, having Danvers greet him. Once Danvers asked something from Parker, he looked over to the many armed forces crowding against him. Parker handed her the Nano Gauntlet before telling her that he could not know how she would be able to go through all of the oncoming army. Wanda Maximoff arrived next to him and told him not to worry, as she and other female heroes rallied behind Danvers 

#### Losing Tony Stark

 being wounded]]
 
Despite their best efforts, alternate Thanos destroyed the van with his sword and overpowered Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, and Captain Marvel. Ultimately, Stark stole the Infinity Stones and integrated them into his suit, using them to wipe out alternate Thanos and his entire army. Once the gamma radiation was emitted into the fatally-wounded Stark, Parker swung over to him and began to notice that he was not in good condition.
 dies slowly]]
Parker walked up to Stark who had James Rhodes by his side, leaning towards him for conversation. Parker told Stark that they had won the battle, but Stark could not answer back, causing Parker to tear up. Desperately wanting to find a response from Stark, Parker realized that he was dying and became overwhelmed with guilt. After Pepper Potts pulled the crying Parker away and said her goodbye, Stark died slowly in peace and Parker honored his death afterward.
 ]]
The following week, Parker returned to Midtown School of Science and Technology, along with the many students who were victims of the Snap. Parker arrived with an upset feeling of what he had gone through in the battles and Stark's death. Parker looked away upon on his right and began to smile as he was reunited with Ned Leeds. The two did their own friendship handshake before hugging one another and going to class.
 's funeral]]
A week later, Parker and his aunt went to the Stark Eco-Compound to attend Stark's funeral. Parker then witnessed when Potts sent Stark's inactive Arc Reactor that was cuddled with flowers into the lake. 

### Summer Trip

#### Discussing Travel Plans

 ]]
 
Eight months after being resurrected in the Blip, Parker had developed feelings for classmate and friend, Michelle Jones, and decided to use the upcoming school summer trip to Europe to confess his feelings. On the last day of school, Parker approached Ned Leeds in art class and detailed his plan to hopefully get his friend's input on his moves.
 all about his plan]]
Parker laid out his plan to Leeds, explaining how he'll sit next to Jones on the flight to Europe, use a dual headphone adapter to watch movies with her, buy a Black Dahlia necklace in Venice, and when they go to Paris, he would take Jones to the top of the Eiffel Tower to give her the necklace and tell her how he feels, hoping to know that she would feel the same way. Leeds then told Parker the next step of his plan should be to not do any of that.
 ' ideas of the trip]]
Unexpectedly confused, Parker asked Leeds why he shouldn't, being told that both of them will be bachelors in Europe and confidently expressed that Europeans love Americans. Despite his skepticism, Parker told Leeds that he really liked Jones for her personality and humor before seeing her approaching to their table. Jones asked the two if they were excited for the science trip, having Parker to tell her that they were indeed. As Leeds agreed with Parker, he mentioned they were talking about the plan, causing Jones to ask Parker about it.
 discuss the trip]]
As he became flustered, Parker told Jones that he doesn't have a plan and Leeds noted that he'll just collect tiny spoons around Europe. Being embarrassed in front of Jones, Parker clarified that he is not collecting spoons but Leeds will do. Jones then told them to download a before the trip, having Parker to agree with her. Leeds told Parker that their interaction went very well, much to his frustration. 

#### Running Several Errands

 about what he will do]]
 
Walking out of their hallway of Midtown School of Science and Technology, Leeds asked Parker what he will do on his last day in New York City. Parker told Leeds that he has some errands to run such as buying mini toothpaste, pick up his passport, and finally take down the Manfredi Crime Family. As Leeds looked concerned, Parker told him that he is fine on his running errands on his own.
 for dual headphones]]
Entering inside Delmar's Deli & Grill to buy his travel gear, Parker was asked by Mister Delmar about his trip and was told if he could come. Parker told Delmar that it was a science trip, leading Delmar to be uninterested. As Parker went to the counter, he asked Delmar about giving a dual headphone adapter in Spanish, but Delmar was confused on mispronunciation. Parker bought the headphones and started to go to a pawn shop.
 
While selling his toys at a pawn shop, Parker was told about if he's sure about selling them, to which he was sure enough and admitted that he wanted to buy a gift for a girl that he likes, having the owner to tell him that he hopes that she was worth it. Before leaving the shop, Parker asked for the toy back and kept it. Parker traveled to the United States Postal Service to get his passport, only to confront a long line of people waiting inside the room.
 
Getting impatient in the long line, Parker decides to use his phone to call up his Spider-Drone from his backpack and help him find a new spot to wait online. Parker waited for the Spider-Drone, as it climbed onto another pickup line and pressed a button to activate its opening. After successfully pulling off another lane and getting back his drone, Parker asked a lady for passport to pick up, despite her eating a sandwich. 

#### Attack on the Manfredi Crime Family

 ]]
 
After finishing up his own errands before leaving for Europe, Spider-Man suited up his Iron Spider Armor before entering an upper-class restaurant that was controlled by the Manfredi Crime Family. Putting an end to the Mafia Cold War, Spider-Man began to engage in battle in order to get them arrested for good.
 ]]
Spider-Man defeated a couple of criminals by snaring them with his Synthetic Webbing and dropping them onto the ground. Spider-Man lands onto a table and used his web-grenade to trap another goon from aiming his gun at him. Spider-Man then back-flipped off the table and shot his webbing at numerous goons as he jumped away from gunfire. As the webbing had been fired off to trap the goons onto walls and ceilings, Spider-Man sat down onto a table in awe from it.
 
Spider-Man suddenly noticed a Manfredi goon shooting at him with his assault rifle and was being shot at with a number of bullets onto, dropping down from the impact from them. While the goon was reloading, Spider-Man told the goon that his suit was bulletproof and pulled himself with his webs and drop kick him in the face. Spider-Man noticed a goon hiding and was reaching for a gun on the floor until he webbed the goon up onto a ceiling.
 ]]
The rest of the Crime Family ran towards Spider-Man after defeating many of their members and attacked him. Spider-Man punched a goon in the face and evade one of the goons' attacks until he used a red bell pepper to beat one of them up. Spider-Man activated his iron spider-legs and attacked a goon from behind after disarming his kitchen knife. Spider-Man clashed with two of the goon's knives and stopped a goon from attacking him with a fire extinguisher.
 ]]
After puncturing a fire extinguisher from a goon attacking him from behind, Spider-Man attacked all of his surrounding goons, defeating all of them with one quick swing from his iron spider-legs. As the fire extinguisher was set off, Spider-Man waves off the fumes and closed a cracked fish tank with his webs before the New York City Police Department had arrived. Once they came to the restaurant, Spider-Man told the police about the situation.
 
Spider-Man spoke to one of the police officers that were reporting the crime scene, telling her which ones were the runner, the buyer, the seller, and the snitch before the latter goon was mortified by the blame. Spider-Man apologized to the goon for blowing his cover and advised Officer Bristow to incarcerate the snitch in his own cell. Bristow then asked Spider-Man if he's going to be the next Iron Man but he sarcastically told him that he can't because he's too busy doing the police's jobs.
 
As the whole group of police officers laughed at Bristow's embarrassment from being talked down upon, Spider-Man told them that he was only kidding but seriously talked to them about doing their jobs this time, noting he will go on vacation. Spider-Man then walked away from the restaurant and let the police do their jobs before declining Bristow's offer to give a selfie, promising to do so next time on his superhero activities. 

#### Pressure from the Public

 ]]
 
Attending at a homeless support shelter at Urban Sports & Cultural Center that was hosted by May Parker, Spider-Man suited up for his stage performance with his Iron Spider Armor for people who had been displaced and become homeless after the Blip. After May shared her story of being blipped back into existences, she then introduced Spider-Man up on the stage to speak to them. Spider-Man stiffly thanked May for having him, as well as the audience that came to meet him.
 for her speech]]
Spider-Man walked away from the stage after May told the audience to hangout before he comes back to take photos and videos of him. Spider-Man unmasked himself and high-fived May for her speech. Parker told May that she did well but was criticized by her for being stiff when spoke, agreeing with her. May changed the subject by asking Parker if he packed his passport and mini toothbrush, to which he said that he did indeed.
 ]]
Parker and May witnessed Happy Hogan with a check and immediately introduced to himself to May. Parker suddenly noticed Hogan flirting with May by asking her about the new dress and talked about his new beard. Once May had got the check from Pepper Potts, she told Parker go to the public and meet them. Parker looked at Hogan and asked what happened, but Hogan ignored his question and told him that Nick Fury is calling him.
 ]]
Parker asked Hogan about why Fury would try to contact him, being told that he calls superheroes for any activities. Parker told Hogan that he probably would call someone else not him until his had started ringing. Picking up his phone, Parker was told that was Fury calling him, but he reluctantly refused to speak to him, but was told to answer the phone or else Hogan will have to. Parker asked Hogan about not answering it himself, being told that he was scared and was told to pick up the phone.
 's call]]
Parker looked up to Hogan and chose to send Fury to voicemail, causing Hogan to freak out towards him ghosting Fury so casually. Parker noticed the crowd of people calling him backstage and told Hogan that he has to go. As Parker walked back and his iron spider-legs opened the curtains, he promised Hogan that he'll call Fury later on, walking away in promise to call him after his school trip. Parker masked himself up and was greeted by the many news reporters.
 
As a swarm of reporters demanded to ask Spider-Man questions, he would pick a reporter who asked if he was head Avenger, saying no to that question. Spider-Man picked another reporter who asked what he would do if the aliens would return, rejecting that question. Spider-Man picked another reporter who asked if he's the next Iron Man which overwhelmed Spider-Man with extensive amount of anxiety, causing him to abruptly jump away and left the building.
 ]]
Spider-Man web-swung up to the building and landed onto the roof, unmasking himself to catch his breath. As Parker calmed himself from all the serious questions he was asked, he got another phone call from Fury but he quickly dismissed it. When Parker overlooked the view of the city, he saw a graffiti memorial to his deceased mentor that he found difficult to look at, grappling with whether or not he could live up to Iron Man.
 ]]
Later while starting to pack up his clothes for the trip, Parker received a phone call from Fury but kept ignoring him. Parker then saw his Spider-Man Suit, wondering if he should bring it with or not. Before making a choice, Parker was hit by a banana by May, apologizing to him by telling him that she thought he could dodge that. After May questioned Parker about his "Peter Tingle," Parker told her to not call it that and that he really needs this vacation for his summer break.
 and armor behind]]
After getting hugged by May, Parker was told to pack his suit just in case, jokingly by saying she has a tingle about it. Parker looked back on his suit and chose to leave it behind his closet, even looking down on his Iron Spider Armor in a chamber and still chose to leave alone, so that he could enjoy his field trip without having to worry about superhero responsibilities. However, May would later pack his suit herself without his knowledge. 

#### Flying to Europe

 ]]
 
On the plane to Europe, Parker was happily excited for the trip, overlooking the view before leaving New York City. Sitting next to Ned Leeds on the plane, Parker was told by Flash Thompson about what an airplane is, making fun of the fact that he was poor enough to get the trains instead of the bus.
 ]]
After Parker was being made fun by Thompson as he was holding a glass of champagne, Michelle Jones took note of this and told the flight attendant that Thompson was a victim to the Blip, making him underage to drink. Parker laughed at Thompson once his drink was taken away while also being told by Brad Davis how funny Jones was for doing that. Parker listened Leeds as he was surprised that all girls are after him once they were back from the dead.
 with Michelle Jones]]
Parker was then worried at the prospect that Davis would make a move on Jones as he noticed him helping Jones with luggage. After Leeds told Parker about the nine-hour flight will take a while and that they should play Beast Slayers at that time, Parker tried to convince Leeds to help him sit next to Jones despite of his reluctance to do it since he wanted to become a bachelor with Parker, but soon he managed to get Leeds to help him go with his plan. Once Leeds went with the Parker's plan, he went over to Jones and Betty Brant and told them about Parker's fake allergy to perfume from an old lady sitting right in front of where there were sitting at.
 's involvement]]
As Roger Harrington noticed the commotion of Parker's perfume allergy, he decided to take action and help Parker to sit right next to him for safety. Parker noticed the change that Harrington was putting through his classmates, having Leeds be beside Brant and Jones beside Davis. Parker picked up his backpack and moved down his seat next to Harrington, being informed that his teacher has a very small bladder.
 
After taking his own seat, Parker was forced to talk to Harrington and listened to his story about his wife who died when the Blip had started but it turned out she ran off with her hiking group. As the flight to Venice was taking off for hours, Parker kept checking on Jones and Davis to see if they were getting too close, making himself mad for ruining the plan. Parker tried to find a movie to calm down but ended to finding Heart of Iron: The Tony Stark Story, causing him to stop himself from doing anything else.
 ]]
As the flight attendance hat notified the passengers to got to the restroom, Parker decided to go over to it so that he could take a break. While washing his hands, Parker opened only to see Jones in front of him, causing him to move away and go into the bathroom. After trying to get ready to look and pretend to use the bathroom, Parker brushed off look presentable and opened the door, only to find Davis waiting to use the bathroom, much to his disappointment. 

#### Encountering Hydro-Man

 ' new relationship]]
 
Landing in Italy, Parker confronted Ned Leeds after seeing Michelle Jones and Brad Davis together at the airport, telling him that they were having a good time watching movies. After being told that it was probably nothing, Parker discovered Leeds and Betty Brant were now in a relationship and asked Leeds what happened to being a bachelor in Europe, noting that he was too grownup for that.
 ]]
Parker carried his luggage out into the scanner and off to the exit, only for one of the guard dogs to smell something off with his briefcase. Now having to showcase the security for his luggage, Parker attempted to tell the guard that nothing important was in there. The security lady unzipped the case, to which saw his Spider-Man Suit with a sticky note left in by May. Parker looked around nervously, only for the guard to tell them that no bananas were allowed.
 ]]
After catching up to his classmates at the airport, Parker joined them on a sailboat in Venice, looking around the city landscape and even checking Jones out if she was having a good time. As the boat stopped by at Hotel DeMatteis, Parker and his classmates settle down their luggage into their rooms before being told by Julius Dell to meet up at the Da Vinci Museum later on at noon. Parker and his classmates left the hotel and decided to hang around the city.
 in Venice]]
As the rest of his classmates were off with their activities, Parker noticed Jones hanging out with Davis as they take photographs of the trip, becoming jealous of how close they were in Venice. As part of his plan to confess his feelings, Parker looked around the city to find a shop that sells jewelry and found a Black Dalia necklace. After buying the necklace, Parker bumped into Jones and walked with each other, talking the phrase with Boh in Italian.
 something wrong]]
After Jones rejected flowers from one of the keepers, Parker was asked what was in the shopping bag, to which he responded by saying Boh, having her to accept it. The pair walked by the canals noticing a large number of crabs scrambling out of the water and Parker sensed something wrong, as he noticed a water drain behaving strangely. Seconds later, Hydro-Man burst out of the canal crashing a gondola that Leeds and Brant were in.
 to get out of the way]]
Parker helped get his classmates get out of the boat and saw Hydro-Man rise up from the water. Parker told Leeds to leave with his friends before telling him that he doesn't have his suit. After escorting people out of the way, Parker evaded Hydro-Man's attacks and equipped himself with Web-Shooters behind a wall. Parker attempted to shoot webbing at the creature, but it passed straight through with no effect, much to his disappointment.
 ]]
Noticing a bridge full of people in harm's way, Parker leaped on several wooden poles, grabbed on a paddle to hoist up in the air from a cruiser, and landed onto the bridge. Parker helped clear people out of the way before being punched backward by Hydro-Man's attack into the bridge rail. Recovering from the knockback, Parker then witnessed Mysterio flying in to fight the Elemental with his magical powers, much to his surprise.
 's sudden arrival]]
After seeing Mysterio in the air, Parker looked around and saw a carnival mask on the ground, putting it on to conceal his identity. While Mysterio was battling Hydro-Man with sheer force, Parker yelled at the new superhero by saying he could help and that he was very strong and sticky. Mysterio told Parker to lead the Elemental away from the , as he flew away from the scene and Elemental went charging at him.
 if he could help]]
After listening to Mysterio's advice, Parker back-flipped away from the rooftop and saw him and Hydro-Man following him. Parker swung up on a rooftop of a building and witnessed the chase between Mysterio and Hydro-Man having to cause all of the destruction within the building structure. Parker aided the civilians by swinging across the city keeping rubble off the fleeing people in the streets below.
 
After using his Web-Shooters to keep the rubble from the buildings off from the ground and webbed all of the walls from falling, Parker then witnessed Hydro-Man reaching into the plaza and fighting Mysterio. Parker took into action and swung up to a church building, closing any cracks on walls with his webbing. Parker went up the church-bell roof and saw Hydro-Man destroying a part of the building, causing to worry Parker.
 
Using two buildings nearby for lifting, Parker used his webbing to hold on to them and keep the church building away from crushing his classmates from the ground below. As Mysterio's battle became intense, Parker was hit by the bell in face and began to lose grip with one of the strings of web, casing another hit to face from the church bell. Parker webbed up buildings again and hold on tightly as the building was about to fall down.
 
As Parker struggled to keep the building away and onto the ground, the battle was soon ending as Mysterio had finally killed Hydro-Man with his powers. Parker felt the impact of the water splashing and caused him to lose grip, letting the building collapse into the ground. Parker quickly recovered from the destruction and checked if his Black Dahlia necklace was safe, relieved that it wasn't broken from the battle. 

#### Meeting Nick Fury

 ]]
 
Back at the Hotel DeMatteis where the class was staying, Parker answered the call from May and talked about the incident at Venice. Parker told May that he wanted to stay on the trip and was noted that she was glad to pack his Spider-Man Suit. Being asked about the mysterious superhero, Parker told May that he did not know him at all, and corrected her about confusing him for another magic based hero.
 back at New York]]
Parker listened closely to May telling Happy Hogan to not eat her lunch, being confused in what was happening. May told Parker he came to check up on her and that he wanted to greet him, making him oddly suspicious of Hogan. After the awkward phone call, Parker was asked about the plan on confessing his feelings to Michelle Jones, responding to May that there were setbacks and later hanged up the phone.
 about Paris]]
The news had dubbed the superhero from the incident as the "Man of Mystery," also known as the Mysterio. Flash Thompson admitted that Mysterio was incomparable to Spider-Man, before Parker listened to this and was ruthlessly insulted. Parker asked Jones if she seen anything from incident, being told that she just ran away. Parker agreed that he also running as well and was excited for the next trip to Paris, to which Jones told him that the Eiffel Tower was her favorite place.
 's arrival]]
Upstairs, Leeds asked Parker what he was going to do with Hydro-Man and told him nothing, admitting that he wanted to focus on his trip and that Mysterio had handled the monster. While brushing his teeth, Parker noticed Leeds was suddenly tranquilized by Nick Fury who noted that he had fed up with him for ghosting his calls. After being surprised by Fury's visit, Parker listened to Fury's explanation about a mysterious Cyclone appearing at Morocco.
 ]]
As Fury kept on talking, the pair were interrupted by Leeds' snoring, Roger Harrington talking about if they needed anything, Betty Brant wanting to talk with Leeds, and Julius Dell. Wanting privacy, Fury took Parker to his hideout, and went along in a gondola. While riding with Fury, Spider-Man was given Tony Stark's Glasses which his mentor had left for him. Spider-Man hold on to this gift before they arrived at the hideout.
 ]]
Setting inside the hideout, Parker was told to remove the mask since everyone will know his identity. Taking off his mask, Parker was introduced to Maria Hill and Dimitri Smerdyakov but was suddenly caught in sight with Mysterio. Parker uttered his name but clarified that it was a name from his friends. Beck introduced himself to Parker and shook hands, being told that he could use somebody like him on his world. Being confused, Parker was told by Fury that Beck is from a different world. Beck explained that he was from Earth-833, causing Parker to surprise at the prospect of a Multiverse existing before apologizing for getting distracted.
 's tragic story]]
Beck further explained to Parker that the Elementals were forged from outer space and comprised themselves as the elements from all worlds. Parker listened on as they explained that the Elementals were myths until they manifest themselves on Beck's earth. Parker was told that Beck's battalion tried to stop them until one of them had destroyed his world and killed his loved ones. Parker was told by Fury that one entity known as fire will appear in Prague.
 
Once Fury told Parker that he was going with him and his crew to Prague, he told Fury that this all seem too difficult to handle for just a 'friendly neighborhood Spider-Man.' As Fury tried to justify his duty by him being in space, Parker noted that he was only there on accident and listed other superheroes to ask for help such as Thor, Doctor Strange and Captain Marvel but was told that all of them were off-world or unavailable.
 ]]
Parker told Fury that he wanted to stay on the trip to please his aunt and protect his identity so that he could not be seen in Europe or else everyone will know who he is. Fury then agreed with Parker and decided to let him go. Parker thanked Fury for the offer on the mission and was escorted back into his hotel by Smerdyakov. Parker went back to his hotel, unbeknownst of him that Fury planned to hijack his trip.
 
The next day, Parker checked up on Leeds to see he was fine and was told that he felt better knowing he was tranquilized by Fury. Harrington then revealed to the class that their next trip will be in Prague, telling them that they had been upgraded by the travel agency. As the Midtown group were heading to the bus, Smerdyakov posed as the driver and directed them into it. Now realizing, Parker noted to Leeds that Fury had hijacked their trip. 

#### Attacked on the Highway

 on the tour bus]]
 
As the Midtown group rode on the bus in Austria, Parker looked over to his case that Tony Stark's glasses were kept before searching up some romantic places on his phone. Parker picked up the glasses and tried them on while also picking up the card that Stark left him and read the words "For the next Tony Stark, I trust you." Following the instructions of saying E.D.I.T.H., Parker finds himself seeing an A.I system asking for control.
 
Parker was introduced to E.D.I.T.H. about being an aerial defense system and able to have access to telecommunication networks. As Parker looked over to everyone's communications with their phones, he glanced over to them as nothing important until he saw Ned Leeds and Betty Brant texting each other closely, much to his confusion. Once the Midtown group stopped at an Austrian rest stop, Parker was directed by Dimitri Smerdyakov to secretly meet the Seamstress, promptly going with the plan. In the secret room, Parker introduced himself to the Seamstress until she told him to take off his clothes. Being confused, Parker was told that the Seamstress made his new Stealth Suit.
 ]]
While still being uncomfortably awkward, Parker listened to the Seamstress' order to strip down so that he couldn't be seen. While he pulled down his pants, Parker was suddenly found by Brad Davis and despite trying to explain, he was photographed by him. Parker pulled his pants back up and stopped the Seamstress on aiming to kill Davis with her handgun. Parker went outside to meet Davis and told him that it was not what it seems but was talked down by the misunderstanding.
 to help him]]
Davis clarified that he knew Parker was to get with Jones for the whole trip and that she needed to know the truth behind him. As Parker told Davis to not show that photo, he was told that Davis refused, much to his anger on the situation. Returning to the bus, Parker saw Davis on his phone, which promptly caused him to panic to pick up E.D.I.T.H. Parker told it to help him solve the problem with Davis, despite the A.I. trying to get him to speak up.
 strike]]
After speaking up to explain his situation, Parker was asked if Davis is a target, answering that he is in fact a target. Once E.D.I.T.H. mistook the order for a drone strike and called it from the Stark Industries Satellite, Parker realizes it was about be sent and witnessed the arrival. Parker glasses were then taken away from Flash Thompson who complimented them, but he tried to than back and accidentally knocked Thompson out with smack on his face, apologizing afterwards.
 strike on the bus]]
Parker put on the glasses again and tried to call off the drone strike against Davis only for Zoha Souliotis to ask him if he punched Thompson to which he replied with denial, resulting E.D.I.T.H. to mistake it as continuing the drone strike. Parker decided to web-shoot the wheel and pull back it so that it could turn to the right. Unbeknownst of him, Parker tried to call off the drone strike again but lost the glasses to ground and quickly picked them up.
 
After picking up the glasses, Parker was told by Roger Harrington to sit down but distracted them by telling the class to look at the baby mountain goats. While the class was distracted, Parker leaped over the bus through the skyline and webbed the drone to a rock to destroy it. Parker told the class that they missed the goats while he saw, keeping lie a secret but was told by Brant something off about him. After she complimented his hair, Parker thanked Brant and sat back down in relief, deleting the photo from Davis' phone afterwards. 

#### Lectured

 ]]
 
The night of Parker's arrival in Prague, he regrouped inside the Carlo IV Hotel with his class and was told by their chaperones that they will go to the carnival of lights. Parker then received a call from Maria Hill and picked it up for the plan that was going to happen. Parker was told that his Stealth Suit had an earpiece and once he arrived at the carnival, they will be further instructions.
 ]]
After the phone call ended, Parker was confronted by Ned Leeds, being told if that if he left out from Leeds and his relationship with Betty Brant, he should not take offense. Parker told Leeds to not worry about it and was asked on the status of the Elemental attack that is about to happen, telling Leeds that he is figuring that out as they speak. Parker was told by Leeds that he and his friends are all counting on him.
 on the situation]]
Parker confronted Nick Fury and his crew at another hideout. After being distracted from Leeds' words on himself, Parker was yelled at Fury to focus on planning the mission out. Mysterio justified the distraction by acknowledging that he kidnapped him, but Fury noted that Parker had obstacles and had to completely removed them. Being asked about the plan, Parker told the group that he will at the cathedral to keep an eye on Molten Man, contact the crew, and fight it along with Mysterio, much to Beck's correction on the name. After knowing how Molten Man will get stronger if it was contacted by metal, Parker told the crew about not putting his friends in danger.
 on a rooftop]]
Parker was then berated by Fury, noting that he was not ready for this fight after knowing about using E.D.I.T.H. to call a drone strike on one of his friends. After being verbally yelled at, Parker sat on the roof to contemplate on the situation. Mysterio confronted Parker by making a sarcastic joke on joining him on the roof to talk by Fury's orders. Being asked how he was feeling, Parker expressed that he was planning to express his feelings to a certain girl.
 talk about being a hero]]
With Beck sitting beside Parker, he told him that it wasn't selfish for wanting a normal life and how it was a hard path to do the right things. Parker listened to Beck about he was glad to fight a battle and knowing what's at stake, despite wanting to tell him to leave. Parker expressed that he always keeps putting his friends in danger, but Beck offered to let them be inside a place away from the battle for a few hours to keep them safe.
 to get opera tickets]]
After Parker thanked Beck for having to talk about superhero activities, they shared a joke about once the mission was over, he will have all summer to kill Davis. Once he regained focus, Parker departed and jumped off the roof, apologizing the civilians that were startled by his entrance. Parker then used E.D.I.T.H. to place his classmates in an opera far away from the upcoming battle for a long duration to ensure their safety. 

#### Night at the Opera

 to go with the plan]]
 
Once Parker had gotten E.D.I.T.H. to lead his class into a safe place, he regrouped with them when Roger Harrington had an announcement. Harrington told the class that they were going to the opera, having the entire class be disappointed from the announcement. As Ned Leeds looked at Parker to see if it was part of his plan, he shook his head in secret, leading to Leeds' confirmation.
 ]]
After Harrington let the class dress up for the opera, Parker walked along with Michelle Jones, as Maria Hill kept barging him through his intercom from for a response. As Parker's class were taking their seats in a mostly empty opera house, Parker gave Jones a compliment about how she looked pretty; Jones joked about her appeal meaning value, flustering Parker until she admitted a reciprocating feeling about him.
 that he is on his way]]
Parker and Jones then noticed Leeds and Betty Brant discovering opera glasses, as they were ecstatic at the look of them. Parker was asked by Jones if he wanted a pair of opera glasses and sit next to each other but before Parker could answer, Nick Fury called him on his hidden earpiece to move Parker into position. Parker told Jones that she could take a seat while he would get a pair of opera glasses and when she left to sit down, Parker told Fury he is on his way.
 ]]
While Parker was about to leave the opera house, Parker asked Leeds to provide an alibi, telling Jones that if she asked, tell her that he was sick. Leeds then plead Parker to not let Molten Man destroy the opera house, to which Parker promised him that he already knows. As Parker was about to sneak out of the opera, he quickly glanced over to Jones until Brad Davis looked at him and gave him the middle finger, causing Parker to be angry until Fury called in for his position. 

#### Fighting Molten Man

 carnival]]
 
As the Prague carnival continued on with the celebration, Spider-Man, in his new Stealth Suit perched on a high vantage point, kept an eye on the location that Molten Man was predicted to emerge. Parker landed on the ledge and contacted Mysterio to keep him on alert. Parker was then asked by Nick Fury about the suit, telling him that it fits great despite noting that it feels tight around the groin area.
 ]]
At the predicted time and location, Fury and Maria Hill had detected an energy spike that signaled the arrival of Molten Man. Upon the monster's emergence from a statue, it roared at the crowd as Spider-Man contacted the crew that of the monster's entrance and called in Mysterio to battle it. As Molten Man started to rampage and Mysterio arrived in front of it, Spider-Man was called in and attacked it with a wooden crate, causing it to get hurt. Once Spider-Man clung onto a wall and used his Web-Shooters to shoot at a fire hydrant, he pulled it off the ground and sprayed the water all over Molten Man while Mysterio blasted it with his powers.
 and Brant]]
After Molten Man was attacked and started to attack Spider-Man with its fist, he evaded the attack, back-flipping away, and landed on top of a carousel. Once Molten Man destroyed the carousel and pushed Spider-Man off of it, he got up from the ground and noticed Betty Brant and Ned Leeds on top of a Ferris wheel, shouting 'Night Monkey' at him. Spider-Man grew even more worried about his friends being in peril and witnessed Molten Man growing even larger.
 's attack]]
Spider-Man attempted to stop Molten Man with his Web-Shooters only for the webs to quickly burn. When all was about to end badly, Spider-Man was protected by Mysterio, as he was using his energy dome to cover each other up. While the monster kept attacking them in the dome, Mysterio asked Spider-Man to go with a strategy, to which Spider-Man noted to attack it with something it can't absorb. Mysterio prompted Spider-Man to move over to the right, as they move to the side.
 ]]
Spider-Man web-swung on top of a building as Molten Man used its powers against him, letting Spider-Man run up the wall and back-flip off of it to avoid any fires. Spider-Man used his webs to grab a piece of debris and launched it at Molten Man. Spider-Man managed to hurt the monster and while the debris was stuck inside it, he prompted Mysterio to shoot at it, causing more damage. Spider-Man landed on a top of a lamppost, being told to attack it again.
 ]]
Spider-Man used his webs to grab another debris of concrete and throw it at Molten Man for Mysterio to shoot at it. Once Mysterio told Spider-Man to keep Molten Man away from the Ferris wheel, he fell down during battle and witnessed the monster punching the ground as the cracks were about to reach toward the Ferris wheel. While Mysterio was attempting to keep the monster away, Spider-Man was on his way to rescue Leeds and Brant until he snagged onto an unseen object.
 and Brant]]
After Spider-Man pulled off the object as it went flying over the battlefield, he looked on over to his friends and ran to save them, using his webbing to hold the Ferris wheel still and stop it from falling down. While he was keeping the Ferris wheel still, Spider-Man witnessed Mysterio turning the tide in their favor, but when a scaffolding crumbled onto Molten Man, Mysterio realized it was too large to stop it and tried to stop it with his powers.
 on the ground]]
Mysterio announced to Spider-Man that he was glad they met, leading him to ask Mysterio what he was about to do. Mysterio took a moment to use his powers to absorb its energy and flew toward Molten Man, as Spider-Man told him to not do that. Once Mysterio sacrificed himself to destroy Molten Man, Spider-Man witnessed it and settled the webbing aside to hold onto the Ferris wheel. Spider-Man saw Mysterio lying on the ground and dropped himself off the ground to inspect his survival.
 ]]
As he tried to wake Beck up, Spider-Man was relieved to see him awake from his attempted sacrifice and helped Beck get back on his feet. As Fury and Hill approached the scene, Beck was requested to join the crew in Berlin, as he candidly agrees to do so. Spider-Man was then confronted by Fury and tried to reason with him until he got interrupted and was told that he would've loved to have him in Berlin as well.
 ]]
Spider-Man was told by Fury that he has gifts but must decide if he's going to step up, noting that Tony Stark chose him and made him part of the Avengers. Fury noted to Spider-Man that he needed an Avenger and the world as well but wasn't sure if Spider-Man was the one to be that. After Fury told Spider-Man that Stark might be wrong and left with his crew, Beck invited him for drinks at a nearby pub to cheer him up, but Spider-Man replied that he wasn't old enough to drink yet. 

#### Talking with Mysterio

 at the pub]]
 
Relaxing inside of the bar in Prague after fighting an intense battle, Parker ordered a glass of lemonade and drank from it in disappointment, being hurt from Nick Fury's words of discouragement. Quentin Beck cheered Parker up, telling him to celebrate his victory for what he did.
 
Parker told Beck that Fury was right, noting that Tony Stark did a lot for him and he owed him big time. While Beck asked Parker if Stark really meant a lot, he told Beck that Stark gave him the chance to do more and wanted him to be better, letting Fury to hopefully keep him to live by that. Once Beck asked Parker what he wants right at this moment, he didn't think of it right away until Beck edged him on, leading him to tell Beck that he wants to go back on his trip.
 about his needs]]
Parker told Beck he wanted to back on his school trip with his friends and go to the top of the Eiffel Tower with the girl that really has feelings for so that he could possibly give her a kiss. As Beck admired the detail from Parker, he told Beck to shut up about it. Beck then told Parker that he'll never do that, leading Parker to agree but Beck asked him why he should. Parker noted that he has too much of a responsibility to that kind of thing now.
 glasses]]
When a waitress picked up the E.D.I.T.H. glasses from the floor and returned them to Parker, he was asked by Beck what were those and how they were just on the floor. Parker was asked to put on the glasses to see how they look, leading him to put them on and show off to Beck. As they took a moment on the look, Parker told Beck that he really likes them, but he was told that they look really stupid on him, much to his genuine disappointment.
 's message]]
Parker then begrudgingly passed them to Beck to see how they fit him, though Beck didn't really want to; he decided to pick up the glasses. Upon seeing the way they looked, Parker had thought over Tony Stark's note for him and what it said; "For the next Tony Stark, I trust you." After Parker told himself this, he noted to Beck that Stark gave him a message when he received the glasses, leading Beck to become in disbelief of that conclusion.
 to keep the glasses]]
Parker told Beck that Stark knew every mistake he made so he must have known that he wasn't ready to fight battles bigger than him yet. As Beck asked why Stark would give the glasses to Parker, he told him that he was probably trusted with the power to choose Stark's successor with E.D.I.T.H. and not someone like Fury because he would just give himself the glasses. Parker emphasized that he needs to pick the next Iron Man who is an adult with experience and not himself.
 the glasses]]
Despite Beck refusing to handle control over the glasses, Parker decided to put them on and tell E.D.I.T.H. to have Beck gain access over the network. With Beck asking Parker to not do it, Parker noted to him that Stark gave him the choice and wanted to do the right thing by giving it to him for saving the world. Once Parker was asked for any confirmation, he accepted the agreement and gave Beck the glasses, welcoming him to be part of the Avengers.
 
Having a moment to think, Beck ultimately accepted the glasses and shook hands with Parker, telling him that it was an honor to be a part of something. As Parker was about to leave the pub, he was told by Beck that he's partly rooting for him to get with his girl due to his sheer awkwardness. After Parker and Beck shared a chuckle, he left Beck alone and bid him farewell. With immense confidence, Parker walked out of the pub, so that he could finally enjoy his vacation. 

#### Learning Mysterio's Tricks

 his mission is over]]
 
Returning to the Carlo IV Hotel, Parker was hugged by Ned Leeds in a bathrobe who informed him that their vacation had been summarily canceled, telling him that each travel destination had an Elemental attack. After Parker told Leeds that his mission was over and the Elementals were gone, Roger Harrington announced them that they are leaving the trip in the morning, much to the fear of Julius Dell.
 ]]
As Leeds went to get dressed and hang out with Betty Brant, Flash Thompson told Parker to keep the noise level down while he was live streaming on his phone. Now knowing that his classmate's parents want them back, Parker was found disappointed that his plan to express his feelings to Michelle Jones was too late. Parker was then confronted by Jones on the same floor and was asked where he was, telling her that he was lost on the way back.
 ]]
After the two had an awkward talk about not leaving to Paris, Jones closed the door on Parker, leading him to finally ready to ask her out. As he was about answer the door, Parker found Jones on edge of leaving the room and asked her out to go for a walk, as they accepted to do that accordingly. In the lobby, Parker saw a news report of Mysterio and the 'Night Monkey' on television before Jones' arrival to meet up with and walked out of the hotel guestroom.
 ]]
They made their way to , and Parker listened to Jones about a fact that people used to commit public execution on the landmark. After the awkward small talk from wanting to see more of the city, Parker told Jones about something he wanted to do something he was meaning tell he about. Ready give her the Black Dahlia necklace from Venice, Parker was told by Jones that he was Spider-Man. After the interjection, Parker was momentarily silent from the statement.
 ' accusations]]
As Jones tried to mention that it was obvious, Parker told her that he wasn't Spider-Man, despite her mentioning what happened in Washington, D.C. and that all of his absences coincided with that guess. Once Jones accused him of being in the carnival battling Molten Man, Parker told her that doesn't know that he was in that conflict and that 'Night Monkey' was the one fighting the monster, much to Jones disbelief.
 turning on]]
Once Parker denied being Spider-Man, Jones presented an item she took from the carnival, which was coated in webbing. As he saw the item, Parker kept his secret and tried to dissuade her for her accusation. Once he started to realize about Jones, Parker asked her if she was looking at him because she thought he was Spider-Man, confirming that answer. Before Parker would elaborate, the item projected a momentary appearance of the Air Elemental.
 ]]
After the projection was over and startled the two of them, Parker investigated the device and deduced that it is an advanced projector. Given the image and technology, they had concluded the Elementals were all illusory projections. As Parker and Jones pondered who could have done such deception, the hologram continued, to show a simulated Mysterio fighting the Air Elemental. After the projection was over, Parker realized that he had made a huge mistake.
 he's Spider-Man]]
Upon Parker's realization that Mysterio was behind a larger conspiracy, he outright confessed to Jones that he was in fact Spider-Man and really messed up. As Parker made sure of affirming that fact, he made her calm down from the questions she and told her to rush back to the hotel before they ran out of time. Back at the hotel, Parker hurriedly explained himself that Tony Stark left him with the E.D.I.T.H. glasses.
 ]]
Closing the drapes of his windows, Parker speculated that he might watch him or have a drone to kill him. With Jones being surprised that Parker had access to killer drones, he told her that he like it since he almost killed Brad Davis. Knowing that Beck might be spying him on his phone, Parker decided to undress and put on the Stealth Suit. While Parker was suiting up, Leeds shockingly saw Parker and Jones together.
 of his identity]]
Finished suiting up, Parker saw Leeds entering the room and was glad to see him as part of the plan to prove that Beck is a fraud. Upon Leeds attempt to lie about Parker not being Spider-Man by letting Jones know there was a costume party, Parker told Leeds that Jones knows his secret identity by telling her outright. Jones then clarified that she knew Parker was Spider-Man a long time ago, much to Leeds surprise.
 about Mysterio's lies]]
Parker told Leeds that Mysterio is a fraud and that despite of the news saying he saved them, Jones noted that he is trying to lie to the public eye. Parker told Leeds that Mysterio is using some illusion tech through a holographic projection. Once Leeds was caught up, Parker asked Leeds to get his aunt to call Harrington and lie about Berlin. Ready to leave, Parker was given the projector and left them with a warning to keep this a secret, swinging out into the city afterwards. 

### Conflict with Mysterio

#### Ambushed by Mysterio

 ]]
 
Arriving at the , Spider-Man web-swung above the tracks and landed on a train. Riding all the way to Berlin, Spider-Man ran top of the train once his destination had arrived and jumped off of it. After web-swinging across the station, he landed on the ground and tried to talk to one of the locals, but she was too scared of him, thinking he was the 'Night Monkey.'
 ]]
Spider-Man was then met by Nick Fury who was driving a car and offered him a ride, prompting himself to get in the vehicle. Unmasking himself, Spider-Man attempted to explain the situation, but Fury told him to wait until the road was clear. Spider-Man was then silently told to put on his seat belt, leading him to pull it out, only for it to be suddenly stuck. Spider-Man then accidentally broke the seat belt completely, much to his embarrassment.
 's lies]]
After Fury had drove all the way to his own facility, Spider-Man followed him along and reached over into Fury's office. As Fury and Maria Hill were settled in the meeting, Spider-Man told them Beck was lying about the being superhero, including the Elementals. Spider-Man noted that Beck had illusion tech and is tricking the public into believing him as some sort of new hero, presenting a illusion projector to Fury and Hill from the battle in Prague. As Fury tried to backtrack Spider-Man's conclusion about Beck's deceptiveness, he further elaborated to Fury that Beck is possibly using drones to create more destruction.
 's illusion]]
Once Fury and Hill understood the situation, Spider-Man was asked if he told anyone about this, but immediately sensed danger nearby and told Fury that Beck had arrived. As Fury and Spider-Man prepared for an attack, they were suddenly met with confusion as the entire room was revealed to be fake, including Hill's existence. As the whole facility was shown to be a construction site, Spider-Man was then fired upon by a drone from behind, shooting Fury in the process.
 's drones]]
While Fury was down, Spider-Man was shot across the room by the drone and felled down several feet, hitting the pavement. After the painful shot, Spider-Man slowly got up and was found being targeted at the many drones that had suddenly appeared. While Beck was talking about how Fury would always have to die but not Spider-Man, he attempted to shoot webbing at one of the drones, but it dodged away from webs and made itself disappeared, much to his complete shock.
 's illusions]]
While Mysterio talked over a loudspeaker about how Spider-Man should have walked away, he witnessed the drones disappearing out of thin air and projected a dark space around him. The illusion had Spider-Man in his red and blue suit, having him traverse in a nightmare illusion of Mysterio's design of a school locker room. Spider-Man spotted Mysterio in the hall and tried to use his webbing against him but were seen as green gas with no effect.
 that this isn't real]]
Seeing Mysterio from behind, Spider-Man tried to punch him in the face but was hurt by the concrete pillar that it was revealed to be. Hearing a loud echo from Michelle Jones' voice, Spider-Man ran towards a door and found himself to be on top of the Eiffel Tower, stopping his tracks of moving forward. Spider-Man looked towards Jones, as she asked him what was going on, leading him to calm himself and told Beck that his illusions aren't real.
 's illusions]]
As Mysterio grabbed Jones by the neck, Spider-Man willingly ran toward her as she was falling down, only for it to be another illusion. After hurting himself by landing face front on the ground, Spider-Man heard Beck's voice about telling him not knowing what's real. Spider-Man was then transported into a miniaturized version of Queens but was punched in the faced by Mysterio's hand as it went through a building and crashed into a glass wall, hitting the many web-lines surrounding him until he landed on the hood of a car.
 
After being ejected out of the building, Spider-Man dropped himself to the ground and found himself in an empty lot. Being badly injured and afraid, Spider-Man witnessed Mysterio's drones again, as they descend upon him to resume the illusion of many shards of glass that stopped his tracks. Spider-Man was then alluded to imagery of himself and tried to touch one of the glasses, but was taken out of surprise when one of them pulled him in. After escaping one of their grasps, Spider-Man met himself in another mirror that was about to attack him until he punched it in the face.
 in an illusion]]
As more of himself as mirrors started to get out of the reflection, they attacked Spider-Man by piling him on top of him, taking off his Stark Suit until it was turned into his Homemade Suit. While Beck was taunting and berating him, Spider-Man then saw a series of statues that had the founding Avengers being shown to be broken in front of him but witnessed Mysterio as the one still standing. Spider-Man was then ambushed by Mysterio but evaded his energy blasts while trying to attack him with his webbing.
 ]]
Once Spider-Man shot his webs at Mysterio and tried pull him in front, he was tricked again as it was revealed to be another illusion and avoided the lifting crane he pulled. As Spider-Man dodged away more of Mysterio's energy blast, he felled down to the ground from the explosion he faced and saw a stature of a fist falling down on him, only for it to another illusion. Spider-Man then looked up to see Iron Man's gravestone in front him, as he was told by Beck that if he were good enough, maybe Stark would've been alive.
 ]]
After pausing on Stark's gravestone to sink the notion harder, Spider-Man was then startled by a zombified hand, as Iron Man crawled out from his grave to horrify him. While Iron Man's head transitions itself into an army of Mysterio figures, Spider-Man found himself being lost and accidentally ran into another, hurting himself again. Spider-Man was caught off guard by noticing himself inside a snow globe, as he freaked out by the buildings coming out from closely.
 about his friends]]
As Mysterio kept playing with Spider-Man's mind, the illusion was cut off by Fury, once he shot him in the back. Spider-Man stood up as agents surrounded Beck, while Nick Fury approached him to demand anyone who knows Beck's deceit, as they might expose him. Confused and pressured, Spider-Man named Jones and Ned Leeds as well as and maybe Betty Brant, but Fury laughed at him for being smart yet gullible. Confusing Spider-Man, Fury was revealed to be an illusion that Beck made to drop his guard.
 
With Beck telling Spider-Man that all of his friends had to die for knowing his secret, he resumed the nightmare illusion and steered Spider-Man away from his path. Spider-Man witnessed a barrage of illusions that changed his environment, such a room full of lockers, shards of glass, and a dark room of statues that are all falling apart as he sees, while Beck kept telling him that he really is sorry. As the illusion had ended, Spider-Man was suddenly hit by a train.
 
After being hit so hard by a high speeding train, Spider-Man managed to survive the impact of the collision with minimal harmful injuries and crawled back to the side of it. Spider-Man would finally gain access to the doorway of the train and waked forward inside, unmasking himself so that he could breathe heavily. Now further away from Beck's illusions, Spider-Man sat down on one of the seats to recover from his pain but was soon passed out from succumbing to his wounds. 

#### Creating a New Suit

 
 
Waking up from being unconscious for hours, Parker found himself in a jail cell with a trio of soccer fans, who one of them gave him one of their shirts to keep him warm. As Parker told them they were nice for treating him so well and they're complimented their English, he was told by them that he was in the Netherlands. Freaking out over the situation, Parker tried to call the guard but was told that he was on break. Parker then broke the holding cell lock and found the inattentive security guard wearing his mask while talking on the phone.
 in Netherlands]]
The injured Parker made his way into a town and was confused on where to go, stepping on feces from one of the barnyard animals. Parker asked a friendly stranger for his phone to call someone for help. Thinking of someone that could him get out of the situation, Parker decided to call Happy Hogan, who picked up immediately. While they were talking, Parker asked the man to tell Hogan exactly where they were, as he had no idea how to pronounce Broek op Langedijk.
 's arrival]]
Wondering into a remote field surrounded by tulips, Parker witnessed Hogan arriving in the Stark Industries Private Jet. Given the recent deceptions from Quentin Beck, Parker demanded Hogan to prove himself to be real, asking Hogan to tell him something only he would know. As Hogan recalled their time staying at a hotel in Germany, revealing his awareness of Parker pay-per-viewing an adult film, a flustered Parker told him to stop talking and hugged Hogan for comfort after what he had faced.
 ]]
While inboard the jet, Hogan was providing first aid to Parker, stitching up a wound on his back. After feeling too much pain from the suturing and being told to relax, Parker got up from his seat and angrily vented to Hogan about how he failed to stop Beck from taking the E.D.I.T.H. glasses away and now Beck will use it to kill his friends and other civilians. Calming himself down, Parker apologized to Hogan for his outburst and expressed how much he missed Tony Stark.
 's speech]]
Taking a moment to think, Parker tearfully expressed how everywhere he went, he saw Stark's face and was asked if he was going to be the next Iron Man. Parker admitted he felt incapable of living up to his mentor's legacy. Hogan then reminded Parker that he'll never be Iron Man and that not even Stark could ever live to it. Hogan revealed that Stark always second-guessed everything he did, but never regretted picking Parker to be the next superhero to protect the world and be looked up to.
 ]]
Once Hogan gave Parker the necessary motivation to focus on stopping Beck, Parker stood up and declared that he will kick Beck's ass. While Hogan asked Parker what to do when leaving, Parker noted that he can't call his friends because Becks tracking them and asked Hogan's mobile phone to find them. Knowing Flash Thompson had a livestream going on his school trip, Parker learned that his friends were in London, leading Hogan to prepare flying the jet.
 's technology]]
Parker then asked Hogan that he needed a suit, leading Hogan to activate a hidden room with a suit synthesizer which Stark had left in for him. To the surprise of Parker, he commanded the machine to bring up anything it had on Spider-Man. Looking at the many Spider-Man Suit designs available, he focused on the designs of different Web-Shooters and while he was about to work on them, he looked over to Hogan smiling at his ingenuity.
 ]]
Hogan told Parker to focus on the suit, while he handled the music for the occasion. While Hogan turned on on the sound system, Parker mistaken the artist for Led Zeppelin upon taking off. As the jet took off for London to intercept with Beck, Parker told the machine to bring up his Web-Shooters again and upgraded its taser webbing by increasing the voltage, as well as giving complete control over detonation.
 to send his gift]]
After finishing his suit design and waited for printing of it, Parker was told that he gave Nick Fury a code to let him know that he is being tricked into believing Beck's lies. As Hogan noted that he will pick up his friends, Parker told him that his suit was almost done, and later asked him to give his Black Dhalia necklace to Michelle Jones in case of something happens, but Hogan refused and told him to give it to her later once this is done.
 ]]
Once Hogan asked Parker how his plan would go, he explained that all he needs to do is go inside Beck's illusion tech so that he could take it down, find Beck, and take E.D.I.T.H. back into his hands. While Hogan counteracted his point about him being hit by a train, Parker noted to him about his sixth sense, having Hogan be familiar with it as the "Peter Tingle." Being told by his aunt's words, Parker told Hogan that does work, despite his unsure of its fully active. As Hogan left for the plan, Parker awaited for his new suit to finish. 

#### Battle of London

 fly to London]]
 
Arriving in London, Spider-Man rode on the side of the Stark Industries Private Jet, while Happy Hogan piloted it over to the city. While Hogan asked Spider-Man how he was feeling, he told him that felt great and even thanked him for complimenting his new suit. Entering London airspace, they saw the huge Elemental Fusion raiding on the Tower Bridge, Spider-Man noted that it wasn't real, and is now a hundred time bigger than he had anticipated.
 
Once Spider-Man told Hogan to get the jet high enough so that Mysterio won't see him coming, they were soon hoisted up in the air above the Elemental Fusion. As the jet has got enough air that is set in the plan, Spider-Man told Hogan that when this is done they must have a serious conversation with him and his aunt before letting go of the jet. As Spider-Man head dives into the Elemental Fusion above, he equipped himself with his new parachute to slow down his altitude and used his paraglider to move forward into through the illusion.
 ]]
After heading towards the illusion and telling himself that it isn't real, Spider-Man crashed into one of the Combat Drones that was projecting the Elemental Fusion, looking all over in awe of how the illusion was made so efficiently to prepare for such larger than life. Spider-Man then used his webbing to stick onto one of the Combat Drones he was holding on, and with his superhuman agility, created a linkage between some of them in a row, in order prepare setting them up for destruction.
 
Once Spider-Man was finished settling the webs to some of the drones, Spider-Man took a moment to dismount the last drone he was on. Spider-Man shot his web to set off the control of his taser webbing which detonated the amount of electricity being circuited within his webbing on some of the drones that were connected. Spider-Man landed on top of a Combat Drone and looked over to see the illusion being cut off as the drones were exploding.
 ]]
While the illusion has set off a number of Combat Drones that now reappearing, Spider-Man looked over to see Mysterio in his motion capture suit and prepared to attack inside the room where he's hiding. Unbeknownst of Spider-Man, Mysterio called E.D.I.T.H. for protection, causing one of the Combat Drones to attack him. After being hit against the wall and falling down to the ground, Spider-Man painfully gets up from the ground.
 ]]
Aware of and agitated by Spider-Man's interference, Mysterio had cut the illusion and ordered the drone fleet to attack Spider-Man around Tower Bridge. Spider-Man contacts Hogan after noticing an explosion from far away, asked him if he was fine after tracking his friends through Flash Thompson's livestream. Now knowing that Mysterio is attacking him, Spider-Man ran away from the firing of the many Combat Drones and jumped away, swinging across to avoid any crossfire.
 
Taking cover by a car, Spider-Man attempts to contact Hogan again to ensure if he is safe, being told that he and his friends are fine. Spider-Man told Hogan that he's trying to get to Mysterio but can't avoid the many Combat Drones, all while using his webs to shoot above and use the car in front of him to cling onto and swung up to push the car onto the drones, destroying them completely. Landing on top of the bridge, Spider-Man saw the drones using flames against him.
 
As he avoided the flames by swinging away from the built in flamethrowers, Spider-Man was then caught in the flames and tried to shake them away from his suit. With his upgraded suit, Spider-Man handled the drones and confined them to the side of the bridge with his webbing, sticking onto them until they explode on impact. Spider-Man swung under the bridge and used the water to put out the flames on his suit and then using one of the drones for a ride around the bridge.
 
After drone that he was riding had been destroyed, Spider-Man shot his webbing at one the drones and swung up around to destroy the many upcoming drones in front of him. Now above the two bridges, Spider-Man used his webbing to set a trap between them and swung up into the string of webbing to enclose them with his webs and bring them down, destroying the surrounding drones that were all around him. As the big explosion had settled Spider-Man away from him in the air, he landed on his feet in satisfaction that handled them all.
 
After the coast was seemingly cleared, Spider-Man was then pushed back by one of the Combat Drones and was slammed by one of the cars that were piled on, causing him fall onto the water. Swimming back up and managing to get up from the shoreline, Spider-Man saw the drones lining up to prepare the illusion. Jumping over to the bridge again, Spider-Man realized his out of web fluid and looked over to see if he can reach above to get to Mysterio.
 
Upon sighting a downed drone with a concussion wave being blasted continuously, Spider-Man found a toy and threw it at its sonic cannon, which projected the toy into the air and the drones overhead attacked it. Based on this, Spider-Man then devised a plan by using the battery of a broken drone, paired with the broken off sign of the Tower Bridge. After getting his supplies, Spider-Man prepared to charge forward and attack the drones from above.
 
As the drones saw him running, Spider-Man used the sign as a shield and threw the battery at the drones, leading them to destroy it. As the drones had exploded next to each other, Spider-Man used the sign to hoist himself up to one of the upper walkways, breaking the glass floor below it. Hanging upside down, Spider-Man apprehended Mysterio and broke his interface dome helmet, which disengaged the remaining drones piercing the vault of the Jewel House, and deactivated upon reaching Hogan and Parker's friends. 

#### Duel with Mysterio

 
 
Atop Tower Bridge's upper walkway, Spider-Man had hold Mysterio up in the air after breaking his dome helmet. Spider-Man told Mysterio that his lies are over but was told that he had contingencies and was shot down by one of the summon Combat Drones that Mysterio had called upon through E.D.I.T.H.'s network. Being shot at and send several feet away from Mysterio, Spider-Man got up on his feet and told Mysterio to give up the glasses.
 ]]
Once Mysterio asked Spider-Man if its the glasses he was holding are the ones he wants, he witnessed a number of Mysterio's Combat Drones disappearing as well as himself, transforming the rest of the room into dark void with green gas clouding all over the ground. Being noted that he has get the glasses back, Spider-Man took a breather to focus on the goal and prepared to use his Spider-Sense to avoid the Combat Drones. With his eyes closed, Spider-Man ran towards the hall once he was ready to fight.
 ]]
Spider-Man then jumped up to the side of the wall and punched down an incoming drone from down under. Spider-Man continues to attack the numerous drones by using his superhuman agility and strength to dodge away any incoming fire or drone charging at him. Using the pipes on the ceiling for more leverage, Spider-Man kicked down a drone and stopped one of them with his bare hands. Spider-Man grabbed another drone and split it to two pieces, stabbing any incoming drone that gets in front of him.
 ]]
As the dark illusion had fallen apart, Spider-Man used drone as a shield to protect himself from fire until he broke free and pushed a drone back. Once Mysterio was shot down by drone that was pushed, Spider-Man wrestled with a drone until it blow him back against the ceiling, causing him to knock down incoming drones away and destroy the final drone. Once Spider-Man destroyed the last drone in the walkway, he stood over Mysterio and asked him if he had a reason to do all this.
 's attack]]
After Mysterio told Spider-Man that he agreed on his behavior and how he deserved the glasses the whole time, Spider-Man sensed his surroundings again while Mysterio was about to pass the glasses down to him. Spider-Man then grabbed Mysterio's wrist without looking and turned over to him, noting that he can't be tricked by his illusions anymore. As the illusion fell apart, Spider-Man took the glasses away from Mysterio and told E.D.I.T.H. to turn off the drones.
 ]]
As the biometric scan was completed once Spider-Man had put on the glasses, he was asked if he wants to execute all cancellation protocols for the remaining Combat Drones, answering yes to execute all the drones. Once E.D.I.T.H. confirmed to execute the drones, Spider-Man witnessed the drones flying away from the Tower Bridge, as they return into the Stark Industries Satellite that is hanging above in space.
 is really dead]]
Happy to see all the drones gone, Spider-Man took the glasses off and turned back over to Mysterio, as he dropped to the floor from his injuries. Spider-Man asked Mysterio how he could do all of this, being told that people need to believe and that now in days people will believe anything before Mysterio had succumb to his wounds and died. Putting on the glasses, Spider-Man asked E.D.I.T.H. to confirm if Mysterio's death was an illusion, being told that all illusions are down.
 ]]
With the crisis averted, Parker then exited the walkway and into the Tower Bridge, where Michelle Jones discovered him, hugging each other for comfort. Asking if anyone else is fine, Parker listened on as Jones confirmed that his friends survived. After Jones noted to Parker that the drones were attacking her and suddenly stopped, he told her that it him that stopped them. Jones further noted that she brought a mace in case Parker needed some help.
 ]]
When Jones brought up that Happy Hogan gave her a Black Dhalia necklace, Parker was disappointed that it broke and told her about his whole plan to give it to her in Paris, but was then kissed by her. As Parker was confused, he was told that she had difficulty getting attached to people and wasn't just looking at him because he's Spider-Man. As they expressed their feelings to each other, Parker and Jones passionately share a kiss before returning to the trip. 

#### Leaving Europe

 rests on the plane]]
 
With the Midtown high school European Tour trip concluded, Parker managed to get back into his group and onto the airplane for a ride home. Parker took a nap on the flight with Michelle Jones, as they slump over for resting too deeply, chuckling at their mishaps and continued resting for whole ride home. 
 ]]
Once the fight ended upon landing back into Newark, New Jersey where they were about to greet by their respective families, Parker and Jones walked together in the airport, holding hands to signify their new relationship. While the rest of the group were meeting their families, Parker asked Jones if anyone has figured out his secret identity, being noted that no one has since nobody really pays attention to him, except for her; thanking her for the compliment.
 at the airport]]
As Jones left the airport, Parker was told by Betty Brant they look cute together, leading him to offer her and Ned Leeds to go on a double date. Parker was told by the two of them that they broke up, being told that when men and women grow apart their journey will always be with them. When Parker exited the airport to find his aunt, he found her as she was about get a ticket, hugging her in relief and noted to her that he felt fine before she asked him about his bags until she remembered that they were blown up. 

### Identity Crisis

#### Date with MJ

 if she's dating Hogan]]
A week after returning from Europe, Parker went on a monologue in his home about how he kept his identity very guarded for the last couple of years and faced a lot of deception. Parker was tired of the lies and had an intervention with his Aunt May and friend Happy Hogan about them becoming a couple. When Parker asked his aunt of the question, May told him they weren't dating at all, much to the confusion of Hogan.
 for his date]]
As Parker was confused from their unclear dynamic, he continued listening to May and Hogan argue about their status, with May feeling unsure where Hogan was taking their brief romance and Hogan rationalizing that they might have a relationship which can grow. Once the conversation grew awkward as it was revealed that Hogan is stuck at being friends with May, Parker excused that he has go out for a date with Michelle Jones, departing as fast he could.
 
When Spider-Man made his awkward exit, he started swinging over to Jones and got his phone to take a picture of himself web-swinging. Spider-Man continued to swing over high distances and ran on walls of a building, apologizing to the employees who were inside of it. As Spider-Man kept on web-slinging around New York City, he received a text from Jones, saying he shouldn't text and swing before almost hitting himself against a bus. After swiftly dodging it, Spider-Man ran on top of the bus and continued on web-swinging.
 
Going up on a building to gain some momentum, Spider-Man shot his webbing at the top and ran on the side of rooftop, giving him edge to jump off it and dive straight into the air. As he neared the location he intended, Spider-Man activated his equipped web-wings and glided through a new opening in the former Avengers Tower to the Grand Central Terminal. He then landed on a street pole to break his momentum, and spun down to plant his feet to meet Jones.
 ]]
Now on the ground, Spider-Man met with Jones on the sidewalk and apologized to her about being late. As Jones told him it was fine, Spider-Man asked her if she's ready, as she accepted before telling her that she's going to love it. Starting their date, Spider-Man swung with Jones across the city, which placed her in a state of heightened fear given the speed. Spider-Man continued on over City Hall where Jones screamed in terror as they were in the air holding hands.
 ]]
After some time passed, Spider-Man was told by Michelle Jones that he could put her down now, leading him to stop at Madison Square Garden. Spider-Man asked her if she was fine, as Jones assured him that she was indeed but admitted to not enjoying the ride with him. Once the two mutually agreed to never do that again, Spider-Man parted ways with Jones and perched atop a light post, waving bye as she left. 

#### Public Enemy Number One

 
 
Taking notice of the breaking news broadcast from the NY1 station, Spider-Man turned around to watch the outer television monitor of the stadium. As news anchor Pat Kiernan reported on the attack in London, Spider-Man listened closely about an anonymous source that provided video of Mysterio's final moments before his death. As Mysterio talked over in the video, Spider-Man was accused for killing him and staging a crisis to try and become the "next Iron Man."
 
When Kiernan went on about having the footage being cited from the controversial online news site, The Daily Bugle, the online tabloid's host, J. Jonah Jameson, accused Spider-Man to be responsible of the murder of Mysterio, who would go down in history as the greatest superhero of all time. As Jameson went on, the broadcast showed more footage, displaying Mysterio revealing Spider-Man's civilian identity, horrifying Parker as he swore in public. 
 being harassed]]
Parker then looked down below at Jones and watched as crowds swarmed around her, with people asking if she was Spider-Man's girlfriend. Parker lept off the light post and makes his way to Jones, pushing through an angry mob. Some angrily asked him why he killed Mysterio and begin to push him and Jones, with one woman even attempting to unmask him in public, only for her to yell aloud that he attacked her even though he was just defending himself.
 ]] 
Parker grabbed ahold of Jones and swung away through Times Square passing jumbotrons revealing his identity and labeling him as "Public Enemy #1," as well as billboards referencing Rogers: The Musical. During their escape, Peter asked if it was possible to lay-low at Jones' house. Jones told him no, saying her father definitely disliked Parker now that he knew Parker was Spider-Man. Parker improvised and landed atop the Queensboro Bridge. On the bridge, Parker received a video call from Ned Leeds, who was anxious over the reveal.
 ]]
As Parker panicked with Leeds, Jones interrupted reminding him of the uncomfortable height he had left her in. Parker turned around and tended to her safety, just as WLGJ helicopters began to surround them. Parker, along with Jones, leapt off the bridge and swung his way into the Subway station below, narrowly missing a train. They instead escaped through a sewer hole in the street, right in front of the newly reopened Delmar's Deli-Grocery, and then swung off towards his apartment.
 arrive in his apartment]]
From there, they arrived at his apartment and he helped Jones sneak inside his bedroom window. As Parker was undressed out of his suit, Happy Hogan and his aunt opened the door and thought he and Jones needed privacy as they were engaging in a sexual act. Parker put a shirt on and told his aunt, albeit awkwardly, that he wasn't doing what she thought, as she came inside to meet Jones.
 
As they went in the living room, Parker demanded an explanation of their breakup, before learning that the WLGJ helicopters were flying around his apartment. Parker used his Web-Shooters to close the blinds, as his aunt and Hogan discovered from that the world now knew about Parker's dual identity as Spider-Man. 
 
Sometime later, Parker left the apartment in his suit to catch a drug dealer. Rather than being thanked for his heroics, he got into an argument with some pedestrians regarding his age as a Mysterio supporter ambushed him by jumping out and splashing green paint across his suit, much to Parker's annoyance and frustration. 

#### Represented by Matt Murdock

 have arrived]]
 
However, just as Parker and his aunt were watching the news about the incident, their apartment began to be investigated by the United States Department of Damage Control, who took photographs of all of Parker's equipment as evidence.
 ]]
Parker, his aunt, Ned Leeds, and Michelle Jones, would later be taken into Damage Control custody on a warrant, charging them with various crimes. They arrived at the NYPD precinct. Agent P. Cleary attempted to interrogate Parker about the drones that were used in the Battle of London. Much to Parker's shock, when he tried to state the truth, saying that Nick Fury could vouch for him, he discovered that he had actually been off-planet for a year. However, before he could say anything else, his aunt, Leeds, and Jones walked past with Jones and his aunt telling him not to say anything without a lawyer.
 ]]
Parker eventually enlisted the services of Matt Murdock to represent him, who successfully got his criminal charges dropped. Despite his criminal charges getting dropped by Murdock, he was warned by the latter that despite getting rid of legal troubles, things would still be much worse, as there was still the court of public opinion, and Hogan would also need a really powerful lawyer to defend himself against any lawsuits as it was his responsibility that Parker used Stark Tech that potentially caused damage.
 's catch]]
Much to Parker's shock, when a Mysterio supporter suddenly threw a brick inside the apartment window aimed at Parker, the blind Murdock managed to catch the brick before Parker. When Parker questioned Murdock on how he did that, he said that he was a really good lawyer. 

#### Condominium Relocation

 's condominium]]
 
As a result of being attacked by an angry pro-Mysterio mob at their original apartment, Parker and May had moved into Happy Hogan's condominium, with the latter happily providing them all the support that they needed. After arriving at Hogan's home, Parker tried to clean his dirty Spider-Man Suit but failed to do so despite his best efforts, eventually giving up, after feeling immense disgust from cleaning it up.
 about college]]
Later on, Parker had discovered that Hogan had a Stark Industries Fabricator within the workshop of his apartment, similar to the one that he used to build an upgraded suit for himself, discovering that it could build almost anything he wanted to build, much to his awe. Later on, towards the night, Parker called Jones, where they both discussed about their applications to their preferred institute, MIT.
 ]]
Parker told Jones that ever since he got bitten by that radioactive spider, that he only had one week where he felt normal was when she and everyone whom he wanted to know about knew he was Spider-Man, and everyone finding out his true identity ruined that for him. However, their special moment was ruined by Hogan who told them to wrap it up as he was trying to sleep, telling him he needed his eight hours of sleep, much to Parker's shock as he learned he had been listening the whole time. 

#### Academic Problems

 
 
A couple months later, with his criminal charges cleared, Parker headed into Midtown School of Science and Technology for his first day of senior year, after his summer break, where he, Michelle Jones, Ned Leeds, and Flash Thompson were surrounded by pro-Mysterio supporters, calling Parker and his friends horrible and demeaning names, terming Parker as the "Devil in Disguise" and people behaving creepily towards Jones, much to Parker's frustration. However, Parker was guided by the NYPD officers on crowd control, who led him inside.
 's mural of him]]
Later on much to Parker's awe, Parker saw Roger Harrington and Julius Dell, who welcomed him back into school and claimed that it was an honor to serve him, while Andre Wilson, who supported Mysterio, accused Parker of being a murderer. Furthermore, he discovered that Harrington also made up a mural of him with all of the pictures of Parker, all the accolades that he achieved, and statues made under his name, with them informing him that he is free to do whatever he wants to do, all much to his annoyance as students began to take pictures of him while he walked down the hall. 
 ]]
Parker went to gym class, where he was pressured by various classmates, along with Dell, to climb a wall, which Parker did so. When class ended, Parker and Leeds swiftly left the gymnasium while Thompson, who was signing autographs of his book Flashpoint: A Memoir - My Life as Peter Parker's Best Friend, called out to him. Later that day, Betty Brant interviewed Parker where she asked him if whether or not he would thank the spider that bit him to give him powers. When Parker answered that he would thank the spider because it allowed him to save people. 
 relax on the roof]]
Frustrated from all of his newfound fame, Parker and Jones decided to go out to Midtown's rooftop, an undisturbed area with privacy, discussing and laughing about all of the new controversies regarding Spider-Man, such as him supposedly having the ability to hypnotize females. However, just before the duo were about to kiss, they were interrupted by Leeds who came there out of his own issues with privacy.
 ]]
Parker had applied to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology along with Jones and Leeds, along with other backup institutes, in hopes for a fresh start in Boston with Parker hoping he could continue being Spider-Man there, hoping to maintain a happy life with his friends, as they planned to live together. Parker was eventually warned by Jones that they should expect otherwise owing to the recent controversies, telling him to expect disappointment so that they won't be disappointed in the future. Despite his friends' suspicions Parker chose to remain optimistic as he believed they would get admitted.
 
Later on, much to Parker's shock, his, Jones, and Leeds' applications were being continuously rejected by every other institute due to his involvement with Mysterio, despite his excellent grades. However, a resilient Parker chose to keep quiet as he still hadn't received his MIT application form back. He remained anxious every time his aunt would return from the mail.
 ]]
That November, when Parker received his M.I.T form he instantly went to Peter Pan Donut & Pastry Shop, the cafe where Jones worked at, so he could meet up with her and Leeds, planning to open up their letters together as friends to face their future. Much to his shock, he discovered that not only he was rejected due to his direct association in the death of Mysterio, but his friends were also being dragged downhill as they were rejected despite their high grades in light of recent controversy. 

### Multiversal Crisis

#### Seeking Doctor Strange

 ]]
 
After seeing Halloween decorations in the form of a wizard, Parker thought of asking Doctor Strange for assistance and used his phone to locate the New York Sanctum. At the entrance, he looked for a doorbell, but the Sanctum's doors opened up on their own, and Parker slowly walked inside, seeing that the Sanctum was full of snow and ice.
 ]]
He saw a young woman and man shoveling the snow and was then met by Wong, who arrived from an Inter-Dimensional Portal. Parker asked him what happened and Wong explained that a blizzard from Siberia had accidentally been transported in. Strange then levitated down to them and greeted Parker. Much to Parker's shock, he learned that Strange was no longer the Sorcerer Supreme, since he had blipped, and that Wong had taken the title.
 for help]]
Parker then addressed Strange as "sir," but Strange told him that due to their shared experiences in the Infinity War and Battle of Earth, he did not need to be so formal. Parker called him Stephen instead and proceeded to ask if there was a way that Strange could reverse time before Mysterio revealed his identity. Strange told him he no longer had the Time Stone.
 and Wong]]
Strange then told him he could cast a memory spell known as the Runes of Kof-Kol, which Wong warned Strange not to, as it was too dangerous. Strange pleaded with Wong, telling him that they had used it before at Kamar-Taj. Wong reluctantly agreed before leaving for Kamar-Taj through another portal. 
 

#### Tampering with the Spell

 ]]
 
Doctor Strange took Parker to a lower level of the New York Sanctum to start the Runes of Kof-Kol that would make everyone forget that Parker is Spider-Man. Parker learned that it included his aunt, best friend and girlfriend. Panicked, he asked Strange to let them remember. However, he then asked about Happy Hogan remembering and then yelled out that everyone who knew before should still remember.
 tear]]
Parker's actions backfired, as the spell became unstable and damaged the fabric of the Multiverse, causing people who knew Spider-Man's identity from other universes to emerge in theirs. Strange managed to get the unstable spell intact and close the tear temporarily.
 ]]
After realizing that Strange failed to complete the spell, Parker asked him why he didn't do it, discovering that his exemptions caused the spell to fail. Much to Parker's delight and embarrassment, Strange asked him if he had asked the MIT Administrator to convince them to admit Jones and Leeds, noting that was a simple decision that would have worked, much to Parker's awe. After Strange found out he didn't do so prior to contacting him, Parker immediately got kicked out of the Sanctum. 

#### Appealing to MIT

 ]]
 
Despite getting kicked out of the New York Sanctum, a satisfied Parker got the idea to find someone at MIT to appeal Leeds and Jones' applications to MIT. As soon as he could think, Parker called a busy Flash Thompson and asked him for the contact details of the MIT Assistant Vice Chancellor so he could appeal for his friends' application.
 ]]
After some reluctance from Thompson to reveal the details, Parker struck a deal with him on the condition that he would tell everyone that Thompson was his best friend, much to Parker's frustration. Thompson informed Parker that the MIT Assistant Vice Chancellor left to the airport, sending him a picture of the Assistant Vice Chancellor so that he can find her.
 ]]
Finding out that she was currently on the Alexander Hamilton Bridge en route to an airport, Parker donned his Iron Spider Armor and flew to the bridge. Upon landing, he heard a news helicopter and turned around to waved at them. As the Stark network was offline, Parker could not use the Iron Spider's technological abilities to locate where the Assistant Vice Chancellor was, forcing him to search manually.
 
Parker found her car and, knocking on her window to speak to her, tried to convince her to reconsider Michelle Jones' and Ned Leeds' rejected applications. Suddenly, Parker's Spider-Sense alarmed him about the upcoming danger, as he noticed people running away from the bridge. 

#### Battle with Doctor Octopus

 ]]
 
Parker then activated his Iron Spider Armor before Doctor Octopus emerged from underneath the bridge and asked him where his machine was, much to Spider-Man's confusion. Doctor Octopus immediately attacked Spider-Man by using his tentacles to throw cars at him, forcing Spider-Man to either evade them or save civilians who were still inside.
 ]]
As Spider-Man was distracted, Doctor Octopus grabbed him with the tentacle and threw him at a UPS truck, remarking that he should have killed when he had a chance. Assuming that he was talking about Michelle Jones, a provoked Spider-Man engaged in a fierce fight with Doctor Octopus, using his spider-legs against the tentacles. However, when Spider-Man heard that the MIT Assistant Vice Chancellor was trapped in a falling car, he immediately rushed to save her, almost fully saving her, but was grabbed by Doctor Octopus, who then tried to force him into the spinning blades of a nearby helicopter. Spider-Man managed to free himself from Doctor Octopus' grip and caught a car with his web, while evading Doctor Octopus' attacks.
 ]]
Although the woman was relatively safe, Spider-Man was open to Doctor Octopus' attack who pinned him down to the bridge with his tentacle. Doctor Octopus damaged the armor, which made the nanites of the armor connect with his tentacles. Doctor Octopus then attempted to kill Spider-Man by impaling his vulnerable spot, but the nanites of his mask protected him. Doctor Octopus saw Spider-Man without his mask and remarked that he was not the Peter Parker he knew, which greatly confused Spider-Man.
 ]]
Using Doctor Octopus' confusion, Spider-Man connected his suit with the nanites attached to his tentacles and managed to take control over them, with the former being incapable of controlling the tentacles, thereby posing little threat, so Spider-Man used the tentacles to get him and the Vice Chancellor back on the bridge safely. All of a sudden, Green Goblin appeared on the bridge, having tossed one of his Pumpkin Bombs to cause an explosion, and zoomed towards Spider-Man and Doctor Octopus using his glider. 

#### Tracking Multiversal Trespassers

 ]]
 
Just before Green Goblin attempted to attack Spider-Man, he and Doctor Octopus were transported into the New York Sanctum, where Doctor Strange imprisoned Doctor Octopus and Lizard. Strange informed Parker that Doctor Octopus, Green Goblin, and Lizard, the latter whom Strange found from the sewers, were not from their universe, but from parallel realities within the Multiverse, who were pulled into this reality by the failed spell since they were aware of Spider-Man's true identity, much to Parker's awe that the Multiverse was real.
 ]]
Parker was recruited to help find and capture these "visitors" as he received a magic-based upgrade to his suit, with one web shot transporting his enemy back to the Sanctum. Strange told Parker that since he had messed up, it was his job to fix all of this, telling him to grab the rest of the villains before their reality was damaged until the point it could not be recovered. Parker agreed to help Strange and told him that he was ready to sort out his mess, but he needed some help.
 ]]
Parker decided to enlist the help of Michelle Jones and Ned Leeds, owing to his past experiences with them giving him leads to the villains, bringing them to the Sanctum where Strange asked them to sort out their mess. Parker tried to refrain from telling his friends about the spell made that bought the villains to their universe but failed as Strange ended up telling them anyways. However, much to Parker's relief, his friends handled it relatively well, with Jones making Strange ask for help in a gentler way as it was actually his fault as the caster that the spell got messed up, much to Parker's delight.
 ]]
After going down to the Undercroft along with Jones and Leeds, Parker tried to apologize to his friends for asking Strange to cast the spell. However, Parker was reliefs to hear that Jones and Leeds were quick to forgive him as they understood his well-meaning intentions. Parker was also told by Jones that the next time he wanted to solve a problem, maybe he should just consider telling them so they could figure out the problem as a group, which he happily agreed to. Later, Parker, Jones, and Leeds shared fun moments as he introduced them to the two captured villains, Doctor Octopus and Lizard.
 's undercroft]]
As Parker was preparing for capturing the villains, he tried to clean his dirty suit but failed to do so despite his best efforts, so he turned the suit inside out for the time being as May Parker told him that she would clean his suit later on. Later on, Leeds managed to trace a suspicious activity at a military research facility outside of New York City, whom he thought was the villain at the bridge.
 and Jones]]
However, just as he was discussing about him, Doctor Octopus intervened and explained to him that it was impossible that Norman Osborn was alive as in his universe, he was a megalomaniacal, misguided villain who died after being impaled by his own glider during a fight with his Spider-Man, saying that either they saw someone else or he was going outside there to fight ghosts, much to Parker's shock. 

#### Capturing Sandman and Electro

 ]]
 
After successfully tracking down the presence of a person at a military research area, Spider-Man left the city and swung into the woods where he encountered Electro, a being made up of pure energy, who was drawing powers from electrical lines. Due to his body being made up of pure energy, Spider-Man failed to transport the villain to the New York Sanctum, as the web went through his body. Electro attacked Spider-Man, firing continuous electric blasts at him, forcing Spider-Man to maneuver through the trees to avoid the attacks.
 ]]
Soon after, Electro had gained the upper hand over Spider-Man after he cornered him and hit him with a blast to cut off his communication with Jones and Leeds. However, before he was finished by the being, he was saved by Sandman, who intervened to shield the boy as he mistook him for the Peter Parker he knew. Sandman built a wall to protect him from the electricity before Spider-Man asked him for help to take Electro down.
 and Electro]]
Promising to clear all things up with Sandman, the two work together to cut the power lines, which fully restored Electro's body to its normal condition. Parker and Sandman then watched as Electro came to the ground to meet them. Electro asked what was going on and Parker informed him he was from another universe. When Electro remarked that he had no clothes, Parker found some construction suit nearby and gave it to him. He then used the device to send Electro to the Sanctum. Upon seeing this, Sandman believed Spider-Man killed him and confronted Parker on his actions but was promptly teleported away also.
 
Parker then called Michelle Jones as he asked her if Electro and Sandman arrived at the Sanctum safety, which she confirmed to him. Also, Parker thanked Jones for helping him out and could not have done it without her help. Deciding that he had to clean things up in order to keep his record clean before the media did anything against him, Spider-Man decided to stay at the electrical tower in order to clean up the area, telling Jones that he will be finding Norman Osborn later on. 

#### Meeting Norman Osborn

 ]]
 
That next morning, Parker finished repairing as much damage from the battle as he could through his webbing. Parker was then called by May Parker to come at the F.E.A.S.T. Community Center immediately as one of the villains he was looking for came there. A scared Spider-Man immediately went towards the F.E.A.S.T. Community Center as he feared one of the villains might have put his aunt at risk. However, Parker was relieved that his aunt was okay but was shocked to see her talking with one of the universe displaced men.
 
After hearing his first name from his aunt, Parker realized that he was Norman Osborn. Parker was about to tell Osborn that he thought he was dead, due to the information he got from Doctor Octopus earlier. However, Parker did not get a chance to as Osborn told him that he came to F.E.A.S.T. looking for his Spider-Man as he thought he could help him but was surprised that he was not the one he knew from his universe. Hearing this, Parker was stunned that Osborn wanted Spider-Man's help as his aunt told him that he wandered into the building. Parker then listened to Osborn explain to him and his aunt that he did not know where else to go, as he doesn't have his home, life or in this universe.
 ]]
Hearing Osborn's situation, Parker felt guilty for unintentionally taking him away from his family and life. Also, Parker found out through Osborn that he had two different personalities and realized that it was him on the bridge before but was under the control of his alter ego, who went by Green Goblin. Parker then talked with May as he told her that the villains had their own mental and physical issues like Osborn did.
 
Also, Parker was told by May that the Multiverse intruders were troubled people who needed his help. However, believing that the group weren't his responsibility and Doctor Strange knew best, Spider-Man told May that Osborn and the others could get help back in their home universes. When his aunt asked him that sending the group back was best for them or for himself, Parker became unsure as he didn't answer her question. Parker also listened to his aunt telling him them that helping others is what they do. However, despite his aunt's words, Parker still refused to help the group as he told her that she should surrender Osborn to him. 
 

#### Scuffle with Doctor Strange

 for his clean suit]]
 
Parker and Norman Osborn were driven by May Parker to the New York Sanctum and he got his suit back, which had now been cleaned from the green paint. Parker thanked May before he brought Osborn to the undercroft as he introduced him to Ned Leeds and Michelle Jones.
 
Hearing that Osborn recognized the initials of his girlfriend, Parker was not only surprised that another version of her exist in his universe but also that MJ could be short for a different name, . Then, Parker found out that Osborn, Doctor Octopus, and Electro were spared from their deaths in their Spider-Man's universes, which greatly shocked him, and he began to question Doctor Strange's intentions.
 ]]
When Strange arrived with the Macchina di Kadavus, he explained to Spider-Man that these three were doomed to die fighting their versions of Spider-Man, and that he planned to reverse the spell and send them back to their fates for the sake of the greater Multiverse. Convinced that they could be cured of their antagonistic natures and be spared from death, Spider-Man stole the box containing the spell before Strange could use it and ran off.
 ]]
He ran outside the Sanctum and tried to escape, but was stopped by Strange who told him to hand the box over. When Spider-Man didn't, Strange used his Sling Ring to summon two Inter-Dimensional Portals to stop him. He then used an Eldritch Whip to bring him down. Strange then knocked him into the Astral Dimension. Parker believed he was dead, but was amazed to learn what had happened and that he could make autonomous movements for him to not allow Strange, who was just as surprised as he was, to take his box as he flew towards his body.
 ]]
Spider-Man then swung away, only to be stopped by the Cloak of Levitation which wrapped itself around his shoulders and tried to pull him back down. Spider-Man managed to free himself and tried to swing away. However, Strange opened up the Mirror Dimension and sent Spider-Man into it. Spider-Man free fell throughout the Dimension, crashing throughout the city falling inside a shopping mall and other buildings.
 ]]
After falling into Central Park, Strange opened a portal, and a subway train came through, hitting him and temporarily separating him from the box. Spider-Man grabbed the box again, as the Cloak reached him and grabbed it as well. Strange then sent him through portals while the Cloak continued to grab hold of it. Eventually, Spider-Man managed to cause the portals to collide, which then shattered the Dimension.
 ]]
This action separated them from the box and transported them to the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Strange then opened a portal and told Spider-Man he would return for him afterwards. Unfazed, Spider-Man decided to use the situation to his advantage, discovering the various mathematical possibilities to trap someone within the Dimension.
 in Mirror Dimension]]
Spider-Man then entangled Strange in a matrix full of his webs through the use of geometry. Afterwards, he grabbed the box and prepared to hop into the open portal. Strange told him not too, but Spider-Man used his web to take his Sling Ring and left the Dimension. Before he left, Parker apologized to Strange for the predicament but did tell him that he had to try and help the group before sending them back to their universes. 

#### Attempting to Alter Fates

 and Jones]]
 
Returning to the New York Sanctum, Spider-Man told Ned Leeds and Michelle Jones about what had just happened, when they asked where he had gone. He told them he had a fight with Strange and won. Parker told his friend that he had taken Strange's Sling Ring, which he gave to Leeds. Also, Parker told Jones and Leeds that he was in the Mirror Dimension, then told them that Strange was trap but he wasn't sure for how long. When Doctor Octopus asked Spider-Man as to why he saved them and did not let Strange send them home to die, Jones told him that it was not who Parker would be.
 
Parker told the group that he could help them as he explains to them that if he can fix what happened to them and when they go back home, they might not die fighting their Spider-Man. Also, when Electro asked him as to what he meant by fix them, Parker explained to the group of villains that the technology in his universe was advanced. However, Parker was interrupted by Norman Osborn, who genuinely wanted to help the group, especially Octavius, and himself, as he told him that he could assist him in his plan in curing the group. Although he was surprised that Osborn was willing to help him, Parker nevertheless accepted his offer for assistance.
 and Jones]]
Parker was shocked to discover that Lizard, who was skeptical of his idea to help the group, could talk, and was then asked by Electro as to what his plan was to help the group, to which Parker claimed he had it under control. He then talked with Jones and Leeds about the Macchina di Kadavus as they agreed that they needed to keep it safe from the villains. Trusting his friends and not wanting to endanger them, Parker tasked them of keeping the Macchina safe and to wait for him in case they needed to press the button to send the universe-displaced home. Parker did his handshake with Leeds and kissed Jones as they left.
 
He then turned around and told the universe displaced villains his plan. As they all agreed to come with him, Parker released them from their confinement and called his aunt in order to pick the group up. Parker alongside his aunt took Electro, Lizard, Sandman, Doctor Octopus, and Osborn to Happy Hogan's Condominium in an attempt to try to cure them. Parker's plan to cure the group was primarily through the use of the Stark Industries Fabricator he had discovered early on in Hogan's condominium.
 ]]
Upon arriving, Parker told his aunt that he feels bad about using Hogan's place like this, but she told him that their friend will get over it. While everyone got settle into hanging out in the condominium, Parker was asked by Doctor Octopus that if this was his plan to help cure the villains as he was skeptical of him using a condominium instead of a lab or facility and believed that he was going kill them all, which he would hope not to do.
 ]]
Parker decided to work on Doctor Octopus, who believed that he did need fixing, first as he went to the room where he found the fabricator before as his Aunt May, Osborn, and Electro followed him, as he showed the three of them as to what he planned to use to cure the group of villains. Also, Parker explained to Osborn and Electro as to what the fabricator would do as he opened it up, but accidentally dented the wall in the kitchen, which Doctor Octopus heard and became terrified as he was fully convinced that Parker was going to kill them all.
 ]]
While Electro, Sandman, and Doctor Octopus hung out in the living room, and Lizard was in the F.E.A.S.T. truck, Parker had discovered the root cause of Octavius' issues as he told Osborn that the Neural Inhibitor Chip on the back of his neck was designed to protect his brain from his tentacles' A.I. but the chip was fried, and the tentacles were now controlling him. Parker and Osborn worked on making a new chip for Octavius through the fabricator.
 ]]
Upon creating a new neural inhibitor chip for Octavius with Osborn's help, Parker asked his Aunt May to set Doctor Octopus up so he could administrate it to him, despite Octavius' reluctance. Peter took off the original inhibitor chip made by Octavius himself, but Parker struggled with putting the new one in as Doctor Octopus kept moving his head. However, after grabbing his head, Parker was able to put the new inhibitor chip onto Octavius' neck, but he fell unconscious. Parker was going see if Doctor Octopus was okay, but regained consciousness, before he could.
 
Seeing that he woke up, Parker was relieved that Octavius was alright and was pleased that the chip work in restoring his mind. After Octavius upgraded his suit by returning him back the nanites that he had taken from his Iron Spider Armor, Parker was thanked by the latter for giving him control of mind back. Parker was then offered help from Octavius in curing the rest of the villains, including Osborn, which he accepted.
 's cure to charge]]
Parker worked together with Octavius and Osborn in curing Connors, Dillon, and Marko, even creating an anti-serum for the latter in order to restore him to his full sanity. Parker worked on Dillon's cure and was given the device by Octavius, Parker began to work on him and talked with him as he sat in the kitchen. However, Parker left the kitchen for the back room when he heard that another cure was ready and decided to have a look. Parker then found out that Marko's cure was close to being done as he decided to make some adjustments before giving it to him. 

### Losing Everything

#### Chaos and Calamity

 
 
However, before he could finish Flint Marko's cure, Parker's Spider-Sense went into overdrive, and he stopped what he was doing. Parker then got up in a panic as Otto Octavius and Norman Osborn noticed how worried he looked. When Octavius and Osborn asked him what's wrong, Parker told them that he didn't know.
 ]]
Parker called his aunt, who was on the stairs, as he wanted to make sure she was safe, while Octavius and Osborn, who were concerned about their friend, followed him to the living room. Although he was relieved that his aunt was not harmed, Parker looked around the living room for the source of the danger. However, due to not being unable to visually discern who was the cause of it, Spider-Man closed his eyes as he trusted his senses and reflexes to guide him to the culprit, who was revealed to be Osborn.
 
His senses did the work for him, resulting in him reluctantly firing a web shot at Osborn, revealing him to be the cause of the Green Goblin alter re-emerging from within his mind. Hearing a different tone in Osborn's voice, Parker realized that it was Green Goblin, the latter's alter ego that he told him and his aunt about earlier. Parker, May and Octavius listen Green Goblin taunting them for helping Osborn take away his power.
 alter]]
Hearing Green Goblin taunting him about power, Parker pointed out that he did not know him, but the latter proved him wrong as he told him that he saw how his aunt trapped him and argued with her holy moral mission. Parker also listened to Green Goblin telling him that his powers along with the others were not diseases to be cured but rather gifts that made them gods. A shocked Parker told his aunt to run as his spider-sense told him Green Goblin was posing a threat to her.
 ]]
Electro, convinced by Green Goblin's philosophy, attacked Octavius and sent him out of a window as he was forced to leave the area, while Sandman fled the scene. Meanwhile, Spider-Man battled with Green Goblin and the two engaged in a fierce and brutal battle throughout the entire building with Green Goblin. Green Goblin and Spider-Man fought a ferocious battle in which the latter discovered Green Goblin's immense power, forcing him to use his full strength against him.
 ]]
Green Goblin threw Spider-Man down a floor, although Spider-Man escaped from the building using of a window. As he held onto the side of the building, he looked down below and saw The Daily Bugle watching him. He was then suddenly attacked by Lizard, who grabbed him, told him he was right, that he could not help them, and threw him back inside of a window. Green Goblin then proceeded to fight him again, crashing through multiple levels, until they reached the first.
 ]]
However, before he could choke him to death, his aunt ran to them and stabbed Green Goblin with the first version of his cure. Unfortunately, it did not work, and Green Goblin called his Goblin Glider, which struck her, fatally injuring her as Green Goblin then proceeded to throw a Pumpkin Bomb and escape. Parker tried to catch it before it exploded, sending the foyer crashing down.
 ]]
As Spider-Man awakened, he checked on May, who at first assured him that she was fine as she told him that he did the right thing in not sending the villains back to their universes to meet their fates. Parker listened to May's advice that with great power there must also great responsibility before she collapsed from her wounds. Spider-Man attempted to call for help, but it was too late as May passed away in his arms but not before reassuring her nephew he did the right thing.
 ]]
As Happy Hogan arrived to see Spider-Man mourn over his aunt's death, armed Damage Control agents arrived to mercilessly force him out of his car and arrested him. Hogan then told Spider-Man to run which he reluctantly did, getting shot in the shoulder before leaving his aunt's corpse under a hail of bullets from the armed agents. 

#### Meeting Other Spider-Men

 ]]
 
With the loss of May Parker, an emotionally broken Spider-Man retreated to the top of a building and watched on a huge screen of J. Jonah Jameson reporting on the recent event, feeling immense guilt for the death of his aunt along with all of the chaos and calamity he caused in his decision to save the villains who betrayed him, in the rainy weather.
 
Parker then retreated to the top of Midtown School of Science and Technology and wept. Eventually, he was found by Ned Leeds and Michelle Jones, who hugged and comforted him. He was also greeted by two alternate versions of himself from the respective universes the villains came from. Having given up any sort of hope of saving the villains and believed that his aunt died for nothing, Spider-Man told his alternate selves that he was going to use the Macchina di Kadavus he had taken from Doctor Strange to return them all to their respective universe regardless of their eventual fates.
 
However, the alternate Parkers proceeded to tell Spider-Man about the people they lost as well, with the eldest talking about how he couldn't save his uncle Ben Parker and the other on how he failed to save his girlfriend and as a result of her death he became bitter and more violent, unable to hold back his strength when fighting enemies and telling him that they did not want to see him follow that dark path, reminding him of what May told him "With great power, comes great responsibility," assuring him that May's death was not in vain if they stopped them. 

#### Midtown Lab Project

 
 
After his spirit got renewed, Parker, Ned Leeds, Michelle Jones and the two other Spider-Men decided to use the chemistry classroom of Midtown School of Science and Technology to prepare for their final battle with the villains, creating anti-serums against them. Using their knowledge of their respective villains, they managed to come up with cures to their powers, with one Parker handling Lizard, and the eldest Parker handling Green Goblin, saying that he had been planning for quite a long time. Parker was hesitant to let the eldest Parker make Green Goblin's cure, but relented.
 ]]
As his Spider-Men developed the cures for everybody else, Parker continued to repair the devices that he had devised earlier to cure, Electro and Sandman, with his friends assisting him and the two other Spider-Men around as they developed the cure for all of the villains. As a nervous Parker was feeling guilty about what he did and the damage it caused, telling Jones that she and his allies did not deserve to suffer the consequences of his action, a supportive Jones consoled a nervous Parker who told him to look at her, telling him that they would get through this together, and that she would not be going to go anywhere.
 
Later on, as Leeds prepared the web-fluid cartridges for all of them, Parker discovered that the eldest Spider-Man could produce his webbing organically, much to his shock, with Amazing Spider-Man questioning how organic webbing would even function. However, before anyone else could ask anything else, Parker decided to continue on with his planning, deciding to go to the Statue of Liberty, the place that would always represent second chances, using the Macchina di Kadavus as a lure. Much to Parker's surprise, Leeds said that he could portal them there using Doctor Strange's Sling Ring. Leeds also promised that he would not turn into a supervillain and kill him, much to Parker's confusion. 

#### Battle at Liberty Island

 ]]
 
Once finished, the group went to the Statue of Liberty which was under construction to be redesigned to sport the new Captain America's Shield. Before the battle, Parker called into the The Daily Bugle and talked to J. Jonah Jameson, admitting his fault in bringing all the villains here to their universe and tell them he was going to fix his mistake in the end. Parker asked the people of New York to wish him luck as he prepared for the upcoming battle, telling the villains that he really did try to help them despite having the power to kill them at any given moment just because May Parker taught him to do better than that, using the Macchina di Kadavus as a bait to invite the villains.
 arrive]]
The three Peter Parkers joked and conversed with each other regaling about the villains they had fought and their adventures before the group of villains finally arrived, with Electro commencing the battle as he arrives fully charged by the Arc Reactor. As the battle began, Parker handed off the box to Michelle Jones and Ned Leeds so that the villains cannot fetch it, which unfortunately went wrong as Leeds couldn't close his portal.
 ]]
The Spider-Men headed into battle with Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man fighting Lizard as Amazing Spider-Man fought against Electro. The duo barely managed to hold their own, requesting Spider-Man to deliver the cure to their respective villains. Just before he was about to do that, Spider-Man got ambushed by Sandman, who grabbed him to get hold of the box so that he could return to his family, not listening to him despite all of his pleas. Spider-Man failed to grab the cure to heal Sandman as he continued to struggle against his grip until one of his counterparts landed scaffoldings on him to slow him down.
 
As the battle went within the villains' favor, Spider-Man deduced that he Spider-Men had serious communication problems, with them being unable to coordinate together. Informing them that he had been in the Avengers, which to his shock he discovered did not exist in the other two Spider-Men's worlds, Spider-Man took the position as the field commander. Taking the alias of Peter-One, Parker tagged the eldest Spider-Man as Peter-Two and Amazing Spider-Man as Peter-Three. Parker then advised they needed to coordinate their attacks, trust their senses, and attack the villains one at a time.
 
Going in with a renewed spirit, the Spider-Men ran towards their aim and jumped off the scaffolding, swinging to their destination together, now as a team. As they dashed into battle, Peter-Two fought off Sandman, while Peter-Three attacked Lizard, while Spider-Man got ambushed by Electro, telling them using their earpieces they have to cure Sandman first, with him meeting Peter-Two inside the statue to do so, whilst planning to meet Peter-Two at the top to cure Connors. Just as he was being attacked by Electro, Spider-Man managed to deliver the antidote of Sandman after getting it from Peter-Three, back to Peter-Two who managed to successfully cure Sandman, undoing his sand-like state.
 ]]
Just as that happened, Peter-One and Peter-Two immediately rushed to help Peter-Three who was struggling against Electro, who was more powerful than ever. Spider-Man told Peter-Two and Peter-Three they had to take the Arc Reactor away from Electro in order to stand a chance, making a plan to make Peter-Two to go right and Peter-Three to go left, in order to subdue Electro in a three-way attack. The attempt failed miserably as he held his other two Spider-Men in captive, owing to his incredible power, as Spider-Man fell back to the scaffolding.
 ]]
Lizard broke free from Peter-Three's webbing and rushed back into the open portal into Midtown School of Science and Technology. Spider-Man pursued Lizard and kicked him away to rescue Jones and Leeds, yelling at Lizard to stop. Lizard grabbed him and threw him across the laboratory, destroying tables and chairs in the process. Spider-Man then ran after Lizard through another portal back onto the scaffolding.
 to normal]]
Meanwhile, Electro proved to have grown too strong and nearly killed Peter-Three, due to absorbing the power of the Arc Reactor. However, they were saved when Doctor Octopus arrived. Octavius pretended to be on Electro's side before removing his Arc Reactor and draining him of his power with Electro's Cure. Just as Spider-Man continued to fend off Lizard, he was saved off by Jones who handed him the Lizard Antidote, allowing him to turn Lizard back into Curt Connors, much to his relief.
 ]]
Doctor Strange then arrived through one of Leeds' portals and confronted Parker for leaving him dangling over the Grand Canyon for twelve hours. Parker apologized to him, telling him that they were close to curing the villains with only Osborn being left of being cured. When Parker introduced his alternate universe versions to Strange, he told Parker that while he was surprised by what he had accomplished, they still had to send them back to their universes before the damage done to their universe became irreversible. 

#### Fighting Green Goblin

 ]]
 
Before Doctor Strange could activate the Macchina di Kadavus to reverse the spell, Green Goblin arrived and attempted to snatch it; however, Strange managed to disarm him. Unfortunately, though it turned out Green Goblin had already put a Pumpkin Bomb in the box which detonated. Destroying it and leaving Strange with no way to send the villains as well as the other Spider-Men back to their respective timelines.
 ]]
The bomb also destroyed the scaffolding in the Statue of Liberty knocking Michelle Jones off as Spider-Man dove to save her, Green Goblin intercepted him with the Goblin Glider. Fortunately, Peter-Three managed to save her. As Spider-Man downed the glider by detonating a Pumpkin Bomb inside the aerial vehicle, the two landed on the shield replica for the Statue of Liberty.
 ]]
After getting up, Green Goblin taunted Spider-Man that he was still too weak to send him back home to his universe to die, although Spider-Man, filled with anger and hatred for what Green Goblin has done, told him that he simply wanted to be the one to kill him. An impressed Goblin sicken praised him as the two engage in an intense battle. Green Goblin punched and sliced Spider-Man, but the enraged Spider-Man fueled solely by anger and hate and no longer holding back, brutally beat Green Goblin into submission.
 ]]
Fueled with rage, Spider-Man grabbed the glider and attempted to stab him to death with it. However, before delivering his brutal punishment, he was stopped by Peter-Two who blocked the strike by holding the glider at bay, until Spider-Man finally calmed down and came to his senses, after realizing this was not what May would want for him.
 the cure]]
Suddenly Peter-Two was stabbed by Green Goblin, heavily injuring him and proceeded to taunt Spider-Man that May's death was strictly on him for not killing them when he had the chance as Green Goblin laughed and taunted Spider-Man. Peter-Three threw Spider-Man the cure to Green Goblin serum who then ejected it into Green Goblin in retaliation, finally freeing Osborn of the Green Goblin alter once and for all. 

#### One Way Home

 to cast the spell again]]
 
Realizing Strange's increasing inability to contain other individuals who know of his identity would result in the complete collapse of the multiverse, Parker chose to tell him to cast the Runes of Kof-Kol but to alter it so that the entire universe would forget about Parker's existence altogether.
 a final time]]
Strange was initially hesitant as it would result in him, among Parker's other loved ones, having no memory of him. Parker elected to recommend the casting anyway, as it would be the only method of ensuring the stability of their universe, atoning for his initial tampering of the spell, and ensuring the safe return of the displaced individuals.
 
Parker then went to check on Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man and Amazing Spider-Man, thanking them for assisting his efforts. When the elder Spider-Man reminded him that it was they did, Parker informed them that he had to go see his friends before giving them both a hug farewell.
 and Jones]]
Parker then spent one last private moment with Ned Leeds and Michelle Jones, the latter of whom shared a passionate kiss with Parker before he departed from the island. The spell was then initiated, ridding them, and the entire universe, of their knowledge of Peter Parker. Pre-existing imagery or footage of Parker suddenly left him out or obscured him in some other way. 

#### Making Sacrifices

 ]]
 
In December, Parker went to Peter Pan Donut & Pastry Shop, intending on reconnecting with Ned Leeds and Michelle Jones by reminding them of their past relationships together. Upon approaching Jones to order a cup of coffee, he introduced himself to her, albeit awkwardly, with the former not paying attention to him, as she greeted Leeds who came nearby, making Parker realize she had fully forgotten him once and for all.
 happily ignoring him]]
Parker then noticed the pair's shared excitement for being admitted into MIT, reminiscing about his efforts to get all three of them into the same university so they were able to stay in touch. When Jones temporarily broke off with Leeds to take his order, Parker glimpsed at a band-aid on her forehead, immediately reminding him of the physical harm she had suffered during the recent events. A feeling of guilt enveloped Parker's subconscious as he came to terms with the danger he once put his closest friends in by opening up to them about his superheroics, and their assistance in his endeavors.
 and Leeds go]]
Realizing that reconnecting with them would break them away from their personal aspirations after high school, in addition to endangering them by resuming their involvement in his personal life, Parker ultimately forfeited the chance to engage in any further conversation with either Jones or Leeds to keep them safe from any further harm that would come as a result of his vigilantism, and simply exited the cafe after receiving his coffee, but not before saying goodbye to Jones.
 's gravesite]]
Later, Parker visited his aunt's gravesite at a local cemetery, grieving her death. Soon after, much to his shock, he was soon joined by a now-oblivious Happy Hogan, who asked Parker how he knew May. Parker replied that he knew her through Spider-Man, in which Hogan replied the same. Hogan then told Parker that then recalled losing his friend Tony Stark a person like May fairly recently. This prompted Parker to reassure him that the people she helped would continue her work, before exchanging goodbyes with Hogan and wishing him well. 

### New Independence

#### Lone Vigilante

 ]]
 
The next day, now completely alone, Parker became fully self-sufficient, but decided to cut ties with his allies and fellow superheroes in order to protect them. Taking some personal belongings with him from the Parker Residence, Parker moved into a cheap apartment and began to settle in, homaging the close friendship he forged with Ned Leeds, as well as the romantic relationship he shared with Michelle Jones, by keeping the LEGO minifigure of Emperor Palpatine from the Death Star set Leeds and Parker built together, and the coffee cup Jones gave Peter at the cafe, as mementos for their respective contributions to Parker's personal life, in spite of their obliviousness to his existence at present.
 
Resuming his efforts to live a simpler life under both his civilian and heroic personas, Parker borrowed a GED textbook to complete his lost secondary academics and bought a sewing machine to create a new Spider-Man Suit by hand, taking inspiration in the visual design from the original Stark suit and the suits worn by Peter-Two and Peter-Three.
 ]]
One night, having tapped his phone into a police radio frequency to keep himself notified of ongoing crime, he was quickly alerted to a situation requiring a car tow for assistance. Honoring his vow, Parker quickly exited his apartment through the front window and swung through Rockefeller Center, passing the Christmas tree and ice rink, soaring with a newfound sense of freedom, and liberated of juggling two lives, continuing his heroics as Spider-Man. 

By 2027, Spider-Man's heroics were public enough to be singled out, alongside Daredevil and Punisher, by Mayor Wilson Fisk during his crackdown on vigilantism. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
*Spider Physiology: After Peter Parker was bitten by a spider, he gained the proportionate physical capabilities of a spider. With his newfound heightened abilities, Parker deliberately holds back from participating in sports to avoid being suspicious, such as football due to having a superhuman advantage. Despite his restrictions, Parker is still shown to be athletic and even received commendation from Coach Andre Wilson for his participation in Captain America's Fitness Challenge.
**Superhuman Strength: Spider-Man possesses considerable superhuman strength, due to it being the proportional strength of a spider. Although he is relatively untrained, his strength alone is sufficient enough to catch a 1.5-ton car that was moving at 40 miles an hour when it was just inches away from hitting a bus, and he claimed to Ned Leeds to be able to stop a bus with his bare hands. He was also able to casually overpower Winter Soldier and his metal arm, pushed Captain America to his limits for a prolonged period of time, breakthrough a bulletproof glass window with only a few blows, lift up rows of school lockers, slightly topple a gigantic Ant-Man, as well as to support the weight of a jet bridge, and was even able to lift a considerable portion of concrete roof that Vulture had collapsed on top of him, though both feats visibly strained him. During the Black Order's arrival in New York, Parker was able to catch Cull Obsidian's hammer moments before it struck Iron Man, and swing a car at Cull Obsidian. His strength is sufficient enough to stagger Thanos, though he was outmatched and subdued swiftly when facing the Mad Titan on his own. Parker's strength helped him overcome Mysterio's drones. He was able to punch and kick through them with ease while simultaneously dismembering mechanical components to use them to his advantage in a sophisticated fashion. He was able to hold and slightly pull together a Ferry cruise boat before Iron Man come to assist him. During the Ambush in Berlin, he punched a depression into a concrete wall. Peter can also easily hold the case containing his suit with one arm, whereas a grown man like Happy Hogan struggled to lift it up with both arms. His incredible strength also allowed him to knock out Flash Thompson with only a slap even though he was completely unintentional. Parker was able to push back Doctor Octopus, kick away Lizard, and viciously and relentlessly hit Green Goblin, staggering him with each blow and knocking him to the ground, as well as lifting him up completely and slamming him down with considerable force.
**Superhuman Durability: ]] Spider-Man's body is inhumanly resistant towards impact forces and blunt force trauma, as he has taken a punch from Winter Soldier and a spinning air kick from Captain America without any serious injuries. Additionally, Spider-Man easily endured a collision with a metal beam while being dragged by Falcon's Redwing flying at full force and a strike from Captain America's Shield, as well as being backhanded by a gigantic Ant-Man, falling unharmed from several stories in the process. Parker only sustained a black eye from the entire Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport and was able to pass it off as a result of bullies at school while telling his Aunt May. Moreover, Spider-Man survived being dragged from a speeding van and endured hits from garbage bins and stacks of bricks, withstand multiple blows from the Shocker's Gauntlet unharmed, as well as Vulture collapsing a considerable portion of a concrete roof on top of him and getting rammed, punched, and slammed multiple times from Vulture’s Exo Suit, with only minor injuries. Parker was even able to withstand a blow from the tremendously strong Thanos while wearing the Iron Spider Armor. However, according to Karen, even Spider-Man would most likely not survive a fall from the top of the Washington Monument. He later survived a plane crash and a fall from the inside of an elevator shaft while only being incapacitated, which he recovered from faster than a human would. While Spider-Man followed Ebony Maw's chase for Doctor Strange and the Time Stone, Parker was unfazed by the various objects flung at him by Maw, even shaking off a direct collision with a billboard, resuming his pursuit. Parker could endure a car being blasted at him from a combat drone as well as a missile with mild discomfort. Parker was also able to survive a high speed train heading towards him, and manage to survive with only minor injuries and mildly nauseated, though he did require some of his injuries be stitched up by Happy Hogan. Despite this, he was able to function at full capacity, enough to battle a multitude of Mysterio's drones with his great agility and strength. He was also able to resist all the blows that Green Goblin had inflicted on him at Happy's apartment. During the same battle, Parker was able to withstand the deathly explosion of a Pumpkin Bomb at point-black range, with only a few broken ribs and other minor injuries.
**Superhuman Speed: Spider-Man can run and move much faster than an ordinary human and is adept at dodging quickly. Spider-Man was also quick enough to catch up to a speeding vehicle on foot. His speed has allowed him to casually catch the Winter Soldier's bionic arm before it could even punch him. During the Avengers Civil War, Spider-Man was able to easily outrun both Black Widow and Black Panther and avoid Wanda Maximoff's telekinetic attacks, as well as dodge many of the blasts fired at him by Star-Lord when he fought him on Titan and dodge rapid gunfire from Mysterio's horde of combat drones. One time, Spider-Man was able to run across an entire golf course and was still able to get to the crime site in time to try to stop the Shocker.
**Superhuman Agility: After Spider-Man gained his powers, he became as agile as a spider, being able to make movements that would be extremely difficult for a normal human with great facility, capable of swinging around on thin spider-webbing and jumping great distances and heights without difficulty. His bones, muscles, and joints have more elastic strength and durability, allowing him to perform gymnastic and contortionist maneuvers without damaging his bone structure. Spider-Man can leap much higher than a normal human, enabling him the ability to jump and leap to a height of several stories in a single bound, and easily capable of jumping and leaping from one building over a street to the next. He used his agility to outmaneuver and beat both Winter Soldier and Falcon, dodge most of Vulture's attacks and even dodge the many cars that Wanda Maximoff telekinetically hurled at him. Spider-Man's mobility was proven to be beneficial for going up against opponents such as Cull Obsidian and Thanos. It was also extremely favorable during Parker's swift movement to prevent a large amount of debris from falling upon civilians during Hydro-Man's attack on Venice, as well as his graceful traversal around the city to meet up with his love interest, Michelle Jones. Spider-Man possesses the ability to achieve a state of perfect equilibrium in any position imaginable. He seems able to adjust his position by instinct, which enables him to balance himself on virtually any object, no matter how small or narrow. He could easily have done a back flip when a car was thrown behind him by Doctor Octopus.
**Superhuman Stamina: Spider-Man could exert his maximum energy for long periods of time. He fought the Avengers for a long time and only stopped when he was forced to by Iron Man. He battled Vulture directly after hanging onto a plane and also exerting his force in order to turn the whole plane away from buildings. He even fought Green Goblin and Lizard at the same time while getting thrown through multiple floors of a building. He then battled the same two villains along with Sandman and Electro not even 24 hours later.
**Superhuman Reflexes: On several occasions, it has been shown that Spider-Man possesses reflexes far beyond the capabilities of normal humans. In conjunction with his Spider-Sense, Parker is able to easily dodge full auto gunfire in point blank range from numerous invisible drones with his eyes closed during his battle with Mysterio. Spider-Man also possesses a heightened sense of equilibrium which greatly enhances his balance and coordination.
**Enhanced Senses: Spider-Man's senses are greatly enhanced, with him describing them as being "dialed to eleven". Hence, Parker is able to sense potentially dangerous things shortly before they occur. For example, if an object is being thrown at Spider-Man, he will usually be aware of it, even if it is hurled from far away and he is facing the opposite direction. His senses are so developed that before mastering his own powers, he was forced to reduce his sensorial input by wearing dark goggles to prevent it from handicapping him in a battle.
***Spider-Sense: Spider-Man has shown an extrasensory awareness of impending danger, Spider-Man - Marvel.com known as his "Spider-Sense," a sixth sense, "Peter-Tingle" or simply "tingle." His brain intakes and responses to stimuli at an accelerated rate, acting as a precognitive ability to sense potential or immediate danger. This awareness thus implies some kind of intelligence, capable of parsing Spider-Man's surroundings, identifying and critically evaluating a potential threat at a subconscious level, thus alerting Spider-Man of dangers he cannot readily notice at first, allowing him to effectively dodge and counter incoming attacks in combat, including projectiles aimed at him even from a blind spot. Provided with his extraordinary speed and wall-crawling, the Spider-Sense is sufficiently well-linked to his superhuman kinesthetics and reflexes, and it permits Spider-Man to evade all manner of spontaneous dangers by an evidently instinctual exercise of some uncanny reflex. It also gives him omnipresent detection to his surroundings, which is how he web swings without looking where he shoots his webs with ease. This was also demonstrated when Parker was able to catch the small cartridge of web fluid tossed to him by Tony Stark, even though he was facing away from him. This ability also doesn't seem to work on individuals Parker doesn't subconsciously consider threats, like his Aunt May. During the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport, he sensed the bench that Winter Soldier had hurled at him while he fought Falcon. During the Ambush on MV Spirit of America, he sensed someone coming his way and, without looking, incapacitated him with a web grenade. Later, he was also able to dodge Vulture's Exo-Suit at full speed, effectively maneuvering in close quarters at a high rate of speed. However, as his enhanced reflexes directly correspond to his sensory input, he can be rendered vulnerable to attacks if his senses are overloaded, such as during his final fight with Vulture. Spider-Man also, despite his incredible reflexes, can be caught by surprise should he allow himself to get distracted, as seen when he was ensnared by Redwing's grapple line due to his excitement during the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport. While on a bus during a field trip, Parker was able to sense Ebony Maw's Q-Ship descending on New York City, despite being miles away from the site. He is also susceptible to attacks if he does not have sufficient time to elude the attack. After crash-landing the Q-Ship on Titan, Spider-Man was able to sense a threat was going to happen before warning Iron Man and Doctor Strange. His senses had also warned him of his impending demise at the hands of Thanos moments before he began to fade away. When Parker was attempting to explain that Mysterio is a fraud, he sensed the presence of imminent danger, before it physically appeared. Furthermore, Parker's Spider-Sense outwardly possesses a directional component and can guide him to or away from concealed danger and disguised enemies, such as using his senses to elegantly dodge and attack the invisible Stark Industries Combat Drones that were heading towards him. After Spider-Man defeated all of the drones, when Mysterio gestured the glasses to him, his senses warned him of the real Mysterio cloaked beside him with a gun to his head, allowing him to anticipate Beck's murder attempt, and countered immediately. He was able to react and prepare to catch a brick hurled into the Parker Residence towards him, though Matt Murdock was able to catch it first due to him being closer to the window. His awareness is so powerful that, even when Strange separated him from his physical form, his body reacted to keep the Macchina di Kadavus away from him. His Spider-Sense was also visible around his astral form's head. Parker was able to sense when Green Goblin took over Osborn, having honed his Spider-Sense to the point that it went into overdrive, with all surrounding voices drowning out and allowing him to focus, being able to hear the heartbeats of everyone in the room. He was even able to sense that whatever threat was upon him would eventually kill Aunt May, as she was the first person that he worried about when his Spider-Sense got triggered, this ultimately was proven to be right. This has shown that not only was Parker able to sense danger coming towards others, mainly the ones he cared about, but also his precognitive ability ranged from a few seconds to more than a few minutes before the threat happened. Later, Parker and his two alternate versions were able to sense the villains arrival at the same time. Parker was also able to catch the Anti-Goblin Serum pitched to him by Peter-Three, even though he was facing away from him.
**Regenerative Healing Factor: Spider-Man's increased metabolism allows him to rapidly heal and regenerate from harm faster and more extensively than normal humans can recover from. He was able to rapidly heal from a black eye from Giant-Man in less than a day. After suffering multiple wounds from his fight with Vulture, Parker's scars were fully healed in a matter of hours. He similarly recovered in mere hours from many bruises and cuts he gained during the Battle of Earth, after the Sanctuary II opened fire on the battlefield and then during Mysterio's ambush on him, in which he was repeatedly attacked by Stark Industries Combat Drones disguised with holographic illusions and then being struck at full force by a speeding train after being lured into its path by the illusions. He was capable of healing several broken ribs from his fight with Green Goblin in a matter of hours.
**Wallcrawling: wall]] Spider-Man can adhere to walls, ceilings, and other surfaces in order to scale them and has stated that he does not use any adhesive gloves or fabrics to do it. This ability allows him to stick to any surface when willing himself to, as physical contact with said surfaces creates a locking connection necessary to support his body, even when he is inverted above the ground. Alternatively, Parker could make individual portions of his body adhesive, which allowed him to stick his foot onto the chest of a bank robber to fling him into a wall. He was able to have a car stick onto his hand and easily lifting as well without required strong grip when fighting against armies of drones lead by Mysterio.
 
*Web Generation: Through the use of his Web-Shooters, Spider-Man is able to project a substance similar to a spider's web. The web's tensile strength and adhesive properties allow him to use the webs for a variety of purposes, from swinging between buildings to restraining his enemies. When Doctor Strange temporarily enchanted his Web-Shooters with eldritch magic, Parker was able to shoot webs that teleported people and objects to the Sanctum Sanctorum's undercroft, as he used the new upgrades to apprehend Electro and Sandman and teleport them to the secret hideout.

### Former Powers

 
 
*Iron Spider Armor Capabilities: When recruited by Iron Man, Parker was gifted with an armor that is similar to Iron Man's. Although he originally turned it down, he used it during the Battle of Titan, Battle of Earth, and the Battle at the Alexander Hamilton Bridge. The armor is made of nano-technology that forms around Parker's body in order to protect him. Parker was also able to control Doctor Octopus' tentacles through his armor's interface. The armor has since been merged into his Parker Suit by Doctor Octopus.
**Superhuman Durability: The armor gives Spider-Man even more durability than his enhanced body has. With the armor, he was able to withstand punches and attacks by none other than Thanos. It is also bulletproof, being able to withstand the high caliber weaponry used by the Manfredi Crime Family. Nevertheless, the nano-bots can be ripped off with enough force. When Spider-Man battled Doctor Octopus, the latter used a spike and his Tentacles to rip off the nano-bots and leave Parker compromised.
**Mechanical Limb Generation: The armor contains four extra legs with sharp ends that can be used to attack the enemy or stab into the ground in order to keep Spider-Man's balance or footing. These spider-legs were able to hold Thanos at bay, with the help of allies, so that they could try to get the Infinity Gauntlet off of his hand, and could combat the pull of the vacuum caused by a hull breach. They were deployed to control his descent after catching Mantis in mid-air during the Battle of Titan, and previously deployed to stop him and Doctor Strange from being ejecting out of Ebony Maw's Q-Ship. During the Battle of Earth the spider-legs were used as offensive weapons when Spider-Man activated instant-kill mode to protect himself from a horde of Outriders, piercing and killing several of the creatures with ease. Parker also used the legs in a battle against Doctor Octopus. When he was thrown into a car, he used the legs to cut a hole into the roof and climb his way out.

### Abilities

 
 
*Genius-Level Intellect: ]] Parker is a highly intelligent science enthusiast, with aptitudes in chemistry, physics, and engineering. His intellect was praised by some of the smartest people in the world such as Tony Stark himself (who considered him a candidate for MIT) and Quentin Beck (who described Parker as "smart as a whip"). In addition, Parker was a valued member of the Midtown School of Science and Technology academic decathlon team, with Liz Allan claiming that Parker was its most intelligent member and strongest asset in physics and his other teammates being distressed when he briefly dropped out of the team. Parker is also an intellectual rival of Flash Thompson, whom he often effortlessly upstaged in class. Parker is also well-read and good at math, claiming to have "nailed" an algebra test the day Stark recruited him. He managed to swiftly calculate geometrical patterns within the Mirror Dimension to outmaneuver Doctor Strange and trap him. Norman Osborn offered him a position at Oscorp due to his high intelligence and knowledge in various fields.
*Master Scientist: Parker is a brilliant scientist who is highly skilled in various fields of science. He developed a highly advanced chemical compound into a silk-like material (the sophistication of which even impressed Tony Stark), using salicylic acid, toulene, methanol, carbon tetrachloride, potassium carbonate, and ethyl acetate to make it sticky, malleable, load-bearing, strong, hold with extreme amounts of tension and stress, yet have a little stretch to it. He later quickly deduced the composition of Falcon's wings based on their relationship between rigidity and flexibility, despite only witnessing their usage in a short span of time. Parker also has knowledge in physics; he was able to quickly solve a physics problem (calculating linear acceleration between points A and B) with just a glance at the board and is well-versed in the multiverse theory, comprehending that it changes how humans understand the initial singularity due to an eternal inflation system. Parker has two gold medal science awards from his sophomore and junior years of high school. Through the use of his scientific knowledge, Parker was able to successfully create a chemical mixture that undid the mutation of Sandman, permanently curing him of his sand-like appearance. However, he failed to cure Green Goblin with the first Anti-Goblin Serum, as it was still in the process of being made by the Stark Industries Fabricator.
*Expert Engineer: create the cure]] Parker has an affinity for working on and building computers, and has become an expert when it comes to creating new technology. As such, he constructed his own web-shooters with over-the-counter materials along with his first Spider-Man Suit and goggles. Furthermore, when deprived of his former suits, Parker managed to take for himself all of Stark's previous designs to create a suit of his own using Stark technology, which caused Happy Hogan to smile as it reminded him of Stark's engineering genius. Parker also quickly understands how to utilize artificial intelligence to his advantage, as his performance with Karen led Stark to entrust him with E.D.I.T.H., a multi-billion-dollar augmented reality tactical intelligence system, and he knew how to use his Iron Spider suit to manipulate Doctor Octopus' tentacles. He later fabricated a neural inhibitor chip for Doctor Octopus' mechanical arms using the Stark Industries Fabricator.
 
*Expert Tactician: Parker draws from pop culture when formulating strategies, notably when he let Iron Man and War Machine know of his plan to tie up Ant-Man's legs, after which they knocked the immobilized giant down. In a similar fashion, Parker devised a plan to rescue Doctor Strange from Ebony Maw by ejecting him out of his Q-Ship through a hull breach. He also uses the laws of physics to his advantage, such as when he used the lift from a SWAT team's helicopter blades to his advantage to get enough momentum to break a window in order to save his classmates. Parker is still relatively inexperienced, however, since he asked Iron Man for advice during the Avengers Civil War, and later consistently asked for Karen's assistance in taking down Vulture and his gang. Following his battles in space against the Guardians of the Galaxy and Thanos, as well as the battle for Earth, Parker seems to have grown in this ability in the eight months following Stark's sacrifice, being able to fight against the highly intelligent Mysterio, circumventing his illusions and ultimately stopping his plans. He swiftly made a plan to coordinate himself and the other two Spider-Men during the battle at Statue of Liberty.
 
*Master Combatant: ]] After fighting crime for six months, Parker's combat style developed into a somewhat instinctive and improvised collection of techniques that emphasizes the use of his superhuman strength, speed, agility, and Web-Shooters. Hence, Parker uses quick, powerful attacks and agile movements while firing his webs to immobilize his enemies. However, Parker is not skilled in martial arts as his style is self-taught and he often gets distracted while in combat. Despite his inexperience, Spider-Man easily defeated both Falcon and Winter Soldier, two military-trained hand-to-hand combatants, as well as temporarily held his own against the far more experienced Captain America; according to Iron Man, however, Rogers was holding back during that fight and could have beaten Parker easily. Parker also fought against Vulture despite the latter repeatedly besting him in combat. Because of his limited experience, Parker was easily subdued by Shocker during their brawl due to him heavily relying on his Web-Shooters for offensive attacks. Later on, Parker had somewhat improved his skills but remained vastly outclassed by experienced fighters, as shown when he and his allies fought the Guardians of the Galaxy and later when he briefly fought Thanos. While Parker was able to briefly duel the highly skilled Star-Lord, he was quickly subdued by the latter's equipment. Due to his predictable combat style during the Battle of Titan, Thanos defeated Spider-Man in moments after recognizing his attack pattern, but nevertheless Parker managed to stagger him. Furthermore, during the Battle of Earth, Parker was capable of handling group fights with each incoming attack but despite activating the Instant-Kill mode in his suit, he was easily overwhelmed by the sheer number of Outriders that were called for assistance. After the Battle of Earth, Parker seems to have improved as a fighter, but still relied heavily on the Iron Spider Armor, as seen when he went against the Manfredi Crime Family. Against Mysterio and his army of drones, Parker opted to rely on his physical abilities to best him, also taking full advantage of his superior senses and early awareness of danger. He demonstrated further prowess in hand-to-hand combat and grappling against Green Goblin. He was able to beat Green Goblin by utilizing his webs to get him closer and then punching him until he was down.
 
*Master Marksman: Spider-Man possesses extremely keen eyesight, and is able to accurately utilize his Web-Shooters to neutralize his targets during his crime-fighting. He was capable of simultaneously ensnaring Captain America's hands and strip him of his shield, mid-air, executing it all at high speed. Parker was also able to precisely shoot a Spider-Tracer onto Herman Schultz's foot across a classroom, and ensnare and latch onto Vulture's Exo-Suit with little effort despite the rig moving at incredible speeds at times, notably during the Hijacking of the Stark Cargo Plane.
 
*Master Acrobat: ]] Due to his superhuman agility, Spider-Man can perform acrobatic and gymnastic feats, such as flips, with little effort. Hence, he was able to accurately shoot a string of webbing at Captain America's Shield, then caught it mid-air and land on a vehicle. Spider-Man‘s acrobatics make him a formidable opponent. While wearing the Iron Spider Armor, Parker's coordination is greatly enhanced, allowing him to easily navigate throughout the environment of Titan, rescuing Mantis, Star-Lord, and Drax mid-air while swinging through the obstacles affected by the planet's gravitational distortions, as well as effortlessly dodge plasma blasts from an accomplished marksman like Star-Lord.
*Performer: Parker took band classes at his school before dropping it to focus on his duties as Spider-Man.
 
*Multilingualism: Parker is fluent in his native English, as well as some Spanish, studying the language in school with success and being able to understand enough to know a quip Delmar was making about his aunt, May Parker, and then make his own quip about the deli owner's daughter. Parker also knows some Italian, as displayed in his text messages with Ned Leeds before their trip to Europe Spider-Man App and when he accidentally spoke the language in Prague.

## Equipment

### Weapons

 
*Web-Shooters: A pair of wrist-mounted mechanical devices used by Spider-Man to project synthetic webbing. Parker invented the first pair while Tony Stark created a new and improved pair to go along with his new suit. Though, this new pair supplied by Stark merely involved technological improvements and a few new features while the overall mechanics and webbing itself Stark did not attempt to replace. The upgraded Web-Shooters come with selective web types and a laser targeting system for accuracy. Parker finds the amount of possible Web-Shooter combinations Stark included to be excessive.
**Synthetic Webbing: Created by Peter Parker himself, this web-like organic chemical substance is meant to emulate the silk created by the common spider, while its composition and tensile strength are substantial enough to greatly impress Tony Stark himself. This synthetic spider silk is used by Parker to help swing around New York City, bind and tie up enemies, steal weapons, and make other useful applications. Spider-Man combines this synthetic web with agile movements to dodge enemy attacks and often targets the enemies' arms and legs to break their balance and immobilize them. The chemical compound was so durable that both Captain America and Winter Soldier had trouble breaking it, despite their enhanced strength. Parker can also fabricate his web compound with ordinary school chemicals used while in chemistry classes. According to himself, the webs take about two hours to dissipate. The latest formula developed is his 3.01 version.
**Spider-Signal: A red light emitted from Spider-Man's web-shooters, which Tony Stark added much to Parker's surprise and delight.
**Spider-Tracer: A small tracker designed by Tony Stark that resembles a spider. Parker planted the tracker on Herman Schultz and used it to track his gang's movements.

### Other Equipment

*Spider-Man Suit: Parker originally wore a handmade suit while operating on the streets of New York City. Nothing more than a red hoodie, blue sweats, and a pair of goggles, this suit was created with the intention to help Parker to conceal his identity and keep his superhuman senses in check. After he had Doctor Strange make his existence forgotten, Parker chose to ditch the Stark technology of his previous suits for a simpler and more homegrown approach, symbolic of his rebirth as an independent Spider-Man. The new spider emblem is also inspired by the other Peter Parkers' suits.

### Former Equipment

 
 
*Stark Spider-Man Suits: Parker was given an upgraded and much more refined suit designed by Tony Stark to better focus his superhuman senses, which also included moving eyepieces that resemble camera shutters to filter out stimuli while in use. After the Stark-made suit was destroyed during the Battle of London, Parker synthesized a new suit using Stark technology which featured upgrades from his previous suit. he was able to turn the suit inside-out to face Electro and Sandman until May cleaned the paint stains, and he could wear it again to face Doctor Strange. The suit later received an upgrade from Doctor Octopus, who previously stole nanites from the Iron Spider Armor to upgrade his tentacles, to create the integrated/hybrid suit.
**Utility Belt: The suit has a utility belt seamlessly integrated into it. It contains spare web fluid cartridges for Spider-Man's Web-Shooters.
**Spider-Drone: The spider emblem on the front of Parker's suit can detach and act as a reconnaissance device. It has a drone mode allowing it to fly onto a target for Parker to follow.
**GPS Tracking System: In his right Web-Shooter, Parker has access to the suit's GPS tracking system via a holographic display, allowing him to follow his Spider-Drone.
**Karen: After deactivating the Training Wheels Protocol, Parker's suit now features an A.I. user interface program similar to J.A.R.V.I.S. and F.R.I.D.A.Y. that provides diagnostic and tactical reports.
*S.H.I.E.L.D. Stealth Suit: Parker received this outfit while operating in Europe for "Nick Fury". It allowed him to secretly operate as Spider-Man while away from home, and he gained the moniker of "Night Monkey" while he worked with Mysterio to "defeat" the Elementals. 
*Iron Spider Armor: Following his confrontation with Vulture, Tony Stark presented the newly created Iron Spider Armor for Parker to use as the newest member of the Avengers, but Parker declined the offer. After initially rejecting the suit, Parker was ultimately given the armor to help during his pursuit of a Q-Ship over New York City, and later during the Battle of Titan. The suit was composed of nanites, similarly to Tony Stark's latest Iron Man suit, and was able to manifest four armored spider-legs from the rear spider symbol, which granted Spider-Man greater mobility and better grip on his surroundings. Doctor Octopus temporarily stole a portion of the nanites to upgrade his tentacles.
**Magic Enchanted Web-Shooter: Taking one web-shooter from the Iron Spider Armor, Doctor Strange enchants it with Eldritch Magic so Parker can help him capture "visitors" from alternate realities. Anything that comes into contact with the eldritch magic-infused web will be transported to a cell in the dungeon of the New York Sanctum. It is ineffective against noncorporeal entities, as the eldritch web phased through an Electro in pure energy form and connected with a tree instead. This feature was only temporarily as when Peter and Strange fought over how to do things, Strange took out the magic out of the nano web-shooter.
*Jester Mask: During the Battle in the Grand Canal, Peter used a jester mask to hide his identity, after he left his suit in his hotel room, in order to help Mysterio battle Hydro-Man.
*Tony Stark's Glasses: Following the death of Tony Stark, Peter was given the glasses that Tony had previously used. Using these, Peter was given access to E.D.I.T.H., an advanced A.I. designed by Stark, which gave Peter access to all the Stark Industries databases and satellite system. Later on, these were confiscated by the United States Department of Damage Control.

### Vehicles

*Stark Industries Private Jet: After being recruited by Tony Stark to assist his team in the fight against Captain America's team during the Avengers Civil War, Parker boarded the Stark Industries Private Jet to go to Germany to assist in the fight. Much later before his final battle with Mysterio, Peter is given access to the Private Jet, this time to build his own suit to his own specifications.
*Q-Ship: Parker and Tony Stark broke into the Q-Ship to rescue Doctor Strange, who had been kidnapped by Ebony Maw. Stark killed Maw by ejecting him into outer space and Parker saved Strange from being sucked out into space. The trio then used the ship to travel to Titan and stop Thanos.

## Facilities

 
*Parker Residence: The Parker Residence is the apartment home to May and Peter Parker. When Tony Stark is required to bring Captain America and his team into custody, Stark goes to Queens to recruit Parker. After Spider-Man's battle at the airport with the Avengers, Aunt May aided Parker's bruise in his room. When Spider-Man had returned home, Ned Leeds had been inside of his room all along and had witnessed Parker crawling across the ceiling while wearing his Spider-Man Suit. Returning to the Residence, Parker and Leeds used the Spider-Tracer on Shocker's boot to begin following the gang's current movements as they made their way outside of New York City. After asking Liz Allan to go to homecoming with him, Parker returned to his home and asked Aunt May for her assistance. Once he returned home, Parker discovered that Stark had returned his suit, putting it on again, until Aunt May shockingly saw him wearing the suit.
*Midtown School of Science and Technology: ]] Midtown School of Science and Technology is a high school that Parker and his best friend Ned Leeds attend as students. It also had an Academic Decathlon Team that is managed by Roger Harrington and led by Liz Allan; only now appointed to Michelle Jones as the new team's captain. Parker took advantage of the school's equipment for his Spider-Man activity, using the chemistry labs to synthesize his web fluid and hiding his homemade suit below a series of lockers.
*Happy Hogan's Condominium: After his identity became exposed to the world, protesters threw a brick through a window of the previous Parker Residence which caused May and Peter to move somewhere more secure. That's when Happy Hogan invited them to live in his condominium that was equipped with state of the art Stark security system keeping them in welfare.
*Peter Parker's Apartment: An apartment rented out by Peter Parker, acting as his new home while retaining some belongings from the previous Parker Residence. Following the successful recasting of Stephen Strange's spell and the subsequent erasure of the world's knowledge of his civilian persona, Parker moved into a new apartment building away from Queens to begin living independently, also buying a sowing machine to stitch together a new Spider-Man suit in order to resume his heroics with his secret identity restored.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Richard Parker † - Father
*Mary Parker † - Mother
*Ben Parker † - Uncle
*May Parker † - Aunt

### Allies

*Midtown School of Science and Technology - Former High School
**Morita - Former Principal
**Roger Harrington - Former Teacher
**Warren - Former Teacher
**Andre Wilson - Former Teacher
**Barry Hapgood - Former Teacher
**Cobbwell - Former Teacher
**Julius Dell - Former Teacher
**Ned Leeds - Former Classmate and Former Best Friend
**Michelle Jones - Former Classmate, Decathlon Leader and Ex-Girlfriend
**Betty Brant - Former Classmate and Former Friend
**Flash Thompson - Former Classmate, Former Rival and Fan
**Jason Ionello - Former Classmate
**Josh Searing - Former Classmate
**Zach Cooper - Former Classmate
**Yasmin Monette - Former Classmate
**Tyler Corbyn - Former Classmate
**Zoha Souliotis - Former Classmate
**Sebastian Fedas - Former Classmate
**Brad Davis - Former Classmate and Former Rival
*Liz Allan - Former Classmate, Former Decathlon Leader and Former Love Interest
*Sally Avril - Former Classmate
*Seymour O'Reilly - Former Classmate
*Charles Murphy - Former Classmate
*Abe Brown - Former Classmate
*Cindy Moon - Former Classmate
*Tiny McKeever - Former Classmate
*Delmar
*Murph
*Klev - Fan
*Avengers - Former Teammates and Friends
**Tony Stark/Iron Man † - Idol, Mentor, and Savior
**Steve Rogers/Captain America - Idol, Temporary Enemy, and Former Leader
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow †
**James Rhodes/War Machine
**Vision †
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye - Temporary Enemy
**Wanda Maximoff † - Temporary Enemy
**Sam Wilson/Falcon - Temporary Enemy
**Scott Lang/Ant-Man - Temporary Enemy
**Bruce Banner/Hulk - Resurrector
**Thor - Idol
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel - Savior
*Stark Industries
**Pepper Potts/Rescue
**Happy Hogan - Former Friend
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier - Temporary Enemy
*Karen † - Former Assistant
*Aaron Davis
*New York City Police Department
**Bristow
**Clark
*Masters of the Mystic Arts
**Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange - Former Friend and Temporary Enemy
**Wong
*Guardians of the Galaxy
**Peter Quill/Star-Lord - Former Attempted Killer
**Drax the Destroyer - Temporary Enemy
**Mantis - Temporary Enemy
**Nebula
**Groot
**Rocket
*Golden Tribe
**T'Challa/Black Panther †
**Shuri
*Dora Milaje
**Okoye 
*Jabari Tribe
**M'Baku
*Wakandan Royal Guard
*Border Tribe
*Brunnhilde/Valkyrie
*Warsong
*Korg
*Miek
*Einherjar
*Ravagers
**Kraglin Obfonteri
*Howard the Duck
*Hope van Dyne/Wasp
*Gamora
*Nick Fury's Crew
**Talos † (disguised as Nick Fury) 
**Soren † (disguised as Maria Hill) 
**Dimitri Smerdyakov
*S.H.I.E.L.D.
**Seamstress
*E.D.I.T.H. - Former Assistant and Temporary Enemy
*Nelson, Murdock & Page
**Matt Murdock - Former Lawyer 
*MIT Assistant Vice Chancellor
*Otto Octavius/Doctor Octopus - Former Enemy and Former Attempted Killer
*Curt Connors/Lizard - Former Enemy
*Max Dillon/Electro - Former Enemy
*Flint Marko/Sandman - Savior and Former Enemy
*Peter Parker/Spider-Man - Alternate Self and Friend
*Peter Parker/Spider-Man - Alternate Self and Friend
 

### Enemies

*Hammer Drones
*Enforcers
**Daniel Brito/Fancy Dan
**Raymond Bloch/Ox
*Criminal Avengers
*Adrian Toomes' Crew
**Adrian Toomes/Vulture - Attempted Killer
**Jackson Brice/Shocker † - Attempted Killer
**Herman Schultz/Shocker - Attempted Killer
**Randy Vale
**Phineas Mason/Tinkerer
*Metropolitan Police Department - Situational Enemies
*Mac Gargan
*FBI - Situational Enemies
*Abner Jenkins/Beetle
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw †
**Cull Obsidian † - Attempted Killer
*Thanos † - Killer
*Thanos †
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw †
**Cull Obsidian †
**Proxima Midnight †
**Corvus Glaive †
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
**Chitauri Gorillas
*Outriders
*Sakaarans
*Manfredi Crime Family
*Elementals
**Hydro-Man
**Molten Man
**Elemental Fusion
*Quentin Beck's Crew
**Quentin Beck/Mysterio † - Former Ally and Attempted Killer
**William Ginter Riva
**Victoria
**Guterman
**Janice
**Doug
*Netherlands Warden
*J. Jonah Jameson
*United States Department of Damage Control
**P. Cleary
**Foster
*Norman Osborn/Green Goblin - Former Ally, Attempted Killer and Attempted Victim
*Wilson Fisk
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearance for Spider-Man
|-
|
 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
** 
** 
** (footage) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (photo) 
* 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** (mentioned; flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
* (figure) 
* (figure) 
* (figure) 
* (figure) 
* (figure) 
* (photo) 
* 
** 
** 
** 
* 
** (mentioned) 
* (files) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** 
* 
** (mentioned; footage; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; footage; concurrent events) 
** (photo; concurrent events) 
** (photo; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (photo; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (photo; concurrent events) 
** (photo; concurrent events) 
* (mentioned; deleted scene) 
* 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
** (mentioned; concurrent events) 
* (mentioned) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (depiction) 
* (depiction) 
* (unreleased) 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Peter Parker was bitten by a radioactive spider that granted him superpowers. Upon the death of his uncle, Ben Parker, due to Parker's indifference, he decided to become a selfless hero.
*One of Tony Stark's guesses as to Parker's superhero alias was "Spiderling." In the comics, this name is used by Parker's daughter, Annie Parker, on Earth-18119.
*Parker's date of birth being August 10th is a reference to Amazing Fantasy Vol. 1 #15, the comic featuring the first appearance of Spider-Man, cover-dated August 10, 1962.
*Parker is a fan of the indie rock bands Alt-J and Led Zeppelin listening to the former's song "Left Hand Free" prior to meeting Tony Stark and mentioning his love for the latter whilst forming the Upgraded Suit and listening to AC/DC.
*Parker is a fan and a collector. Parker has Star Wars action figures and Lego models of the , an , and an . He also referenced during the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport.
**Despite this, at the time Tom Holland claimed to not be a big Star Wars fan and had not seen , though he did enjoy and , as well as when he was a child. 'Spider-Man' Star Tom Holland Admits He's Never Seen 'Empire Strikes Back' 
*Parker is a fan of the New York Mets.
*Parker's school locker is #1184.
*Spider-Man is one of three superheroes who defeated the main antagonist of their first standalone movie without any assistance, the other two being Hulk and Ant-Man.
*Spider-Man is the second superhero to star in two solo films in the same phase, with the first being Iron Man.
*Parker began his sophomore year of high school in 2016, meaning he was originally set to graduate in 2019 prior to the Snap. Following the Blip, he was set to graduate in 2025 due to everyone having to repeat his junior year of high school, before everyone's memories of him were erased and forcing him to earn his GED.
*In the comics, a version inspired of MCU Spider-Man appeared in Spider-Verse #3 and in Spider-Geddon #5 as part of the Spider-Army assembled to fight the Inheritors led by the Earth-616's Spider-Man.
*Spider-Man is listed as one of the default names on The Avengers: Skrull Takedowns high score screen.

## Behind the Scenes

*Spider-Man was first indirectly referenced in an alternate version of the post-credits scene for Iron Man, in which Nick Fury mentioned to Tony Stark about "radioactive bug bites" on the "bigger universe" he has become part. This version ultimately went unused from the finished film, likely because Sony Pictures Entertainment owns the film rights of Spider-Man. DiscussingFilm on Twitter - September 14, 2019 
*Joss Whedon wanted to include Spider-Man at the end of Avengers: Age of Ultron, but was unable to do so because the deal with Sony Pictures Entertainment had yet to be completed during filming. Joss Whedon on Fighting With Marvel Over 'Avengers: Age of Ultron': "It Got Really, Really Unpleasant" 
*Tom Holland made audition tapes together with Jon Bernthal while filming , both landing their roles of Peter Parker and Frank Castle respectively. EXCLUSIVE: Jon Bernthal and Tom Holland made audition tapes together to land The Punisher and Spider-Man roles 
*Tom Holland learned that he had been cast as Spider-Man on : "I was actually having a really bad day, and I found out on Instagram. I was in my bed, I was scrolling through Instagram, and Marvel had posted a photo of Spider-Man. It said, 'Go to our website, and find out who it is'. I opened the screen, and then it said my name, and I went nuts." Tom Holland found out about his Spider-Man casting on Instagram 
*During his audition, Tom Holland mentioned that Robert Downey Jr. gave him advice, saying "Listen, I remember my screen test for Iron Man. I remember how terrified I was. Just think of it as an audition. It's nothing too scary. If you get it wrong, we'll just start again. No pressure.."
*Max Favreau, the son of Jon Favreau, had a role as an "Expo Kid" in Iron Man 2 which was later retconned as a young Peter Parker.
**In an interview with the , Holland confirmed that the child that Iron Man rescues from the Hammer Drones in Iron Man 2 was, in fact, Peter Parker after "literally" having conversation with Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige "only 20 minutes ago." Jon Watts revealed in an interview with that the boy retroactively revealed to be Parker was portrayed by Jon Favreau's son, Max Favreau. Spider-Man: Homecoming director confirms Peter Parker's Iron Man 2 cameo 
*Spider-Man in the Marvel Cinematic Universe is the sixth live-action incarnation of the character, following incarnations portrayed by , , , Tobey Maguire and Andrew Garfield.
**Unlike previous incarnations, this Spider-Man's agility and athleticism were performed by actor Tom Holland due to his history in dance and gymnastics, thereby allowing a majority of the stunts to be produced practically and without CGI.
*Tom Holland mentioned that he has signed on for three Spider-Man movies and three other Marvel films, bringing a total of six films in his contract.
* , , , Matt Lintz and were the final contenders for Spider-Man with Rowe being the runner-up for the role. Lintz would later be cast as Bruno Carrelli in Ms. Marvel.
*In Captain America: Civil War, Spider-Man kicks but never punches. Holland noted it was a conscious decision to emphasize Parker's age: "Every decision we make on set is based off, 'How would a kid react in this situation?' so every fight scene we have is designed in a way that's almost child-friendly, so he never actually punches anyone. It's all done [by him] kind of by accident." THR: Tom Holland Explains Why His Spider-Man "Never Actually Punches Anyone" 
**Ironically, Spider-Man himself never punched any bad guys he fought against in the .
*In the Italian dubbing of the Iron Fist episode Eight Diagram Dragon Palm, Ward Meachum mentions Spider-Man when he compares Danny Rand's scaling of a building, instead of Daredevil. Vimeo: Spider-Man reference in the Italian dubbing of Iron Fist 
*Spider-Man is mentioned in the Wu-Tang Clan song " ," which is featured in The Defenders episode The Defenders. 
*This version of Parker served as one of the inspirations for one of the Spider-Men featured in the film . Interview: 'Into the Spider-Verse' Producers Phil Lord and Chris Miller Talk Spider-Man, Stan Lee and Reinventing the Comic Book Movie There were also plans to include Holland's Spider-Man in an scene which would have featured him alongside Maguire's and Garfield's versions of the character, but the scene was scrapped due to fears it would have been far too convoluted. Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse almost featured Tobey Maguire, Andrew Garfield and Tom Holland Holland's Spider-Man would have appeared at a train station where he would have greeted Miles Morales while walking through the background as an , but the scene was cut. Tom Holland Met Miles Morales in Cut Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse Cameo 
*The Falcon and The Winter Soldier showrunner Malcolm Spellman stated in an interview with that there were plans to include Spider-Man in the first season finale "One World, One People", as the episode takes place in New York City, but Kevin Feige convinced him to not include Spidey because he didn't belong to the story in an organic way. THE FALCON AND THE WINTER SOLDIER WRITER HAS BAD NEWS FOR STEVE ROGERS FANS 
*Marvin Ross, Holland Diaz, Danny Downey, David Elson, Alrik Kreemke, Chris Silcox, Christian Peden, Luke Scott, Greg Townley and John Flanagan were stunt doubles for Tom Holland in the role of Spider-Man.
**Diaz and Elson were both stunt doubles for previous cinematic incarnations of Spider-Man. Diaz doubled for Tobey Maguire in and Elson doubled for Andrew Garfield in .
*Ian Kyle Findley, Freddy Parkington, and Shane Hibbard were stand-ins for Tom Holland in the role of Spider-Man.
*Spider-Man, Black Panther, and Black Widow are the only characters in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to receive a solo movie following their debut.
*Spider-Man is one of the three main protagonists who are able to defeat the main antagonist without assistance in the MCU, the others being the Hulk, Ant-Man, and Deadpool and Wolverine in all of their titular films. So far, he has been the only one to do it more than once. 
*This version of the character is featured in the post-credit scene of which ties into the ending of Spider-Man: Far From Home. 
**He was also mentioned in the post-credit scene of which ties into the ending of Spider-Man: No Way Home. As depicted in the film 
*This version of Spider-Man is mentioned in the film . As depicted in the film Co-director later clarified in an interview with SFX, however, that Miguel O'Hara's mention of Spider-Man was merely a reference to Spider-Man: No Way Home that came up with as a tongue-in-cheek joke acknowledging the Spider-Man character's history. Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse director addresses MCU crossover 

## References

 
 
 }}

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

 

es:Peter Parker
fr:Spider-Man
pl:Spider-Man
pt-br:Homem-Aranha
ru:Человек-паук

Category:Characters
Category:Iron Man 2 Characters
Category:Captain America: Civil War Characters
Category:Spider-Man: Homecoming Characters
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Spider-Man: Far From Home Characters
Category:Spider-Man: No Way Home Characters
Category:Spider-Man: Brand New Day Characters
Category:Peter's To-Do List Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Promotional Campaigns Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Males
Category:Brown Hair
Category:Brown Eyes
Category:Students
Category:Vigilantes
Category:Criminals
Category:Musicians
Category:Midtown School of Science and Technology Students
Category:Avengers Members
Category:Nelson, Murdock & Page Clients
Category:Enhanced Individuals
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Resurrected Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Thanos