|media = Panther King }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = 
|gender = Male
|DOB = Early 1980s 
|DOD = 
*May 2018 (resurrected in October 2023) 
*May 2024 
|snapped = Yes 
|title = Prince of Wakanda (formerly) Black Panther King of Wakanda
|affiliation = Golden Tribe Tribal Council
|movie = Black Panther Avengers: Infinity War Avengers: Endgame }}
|tv series = }}
|docuseries = Legends *King T'Challa
|game = Avengers: Infinity War
|comic = Avengers: Endgame Prelude }}
|book = The Wakanda Files: A Technological Exploration of the Avengers and Beyond Black Panther: Wakanda Forever: The Courage to Dream }}
|actor = Chadwick Boseman Ashton Tyler (young) 
|status = Deceased}}
 
King T'Challa was the King of Wakanda and the eldest child of T'Chaka and Ramonda who was chosen to be the holder of the Black Panther mantle. Following the death of his father in the bombing orchestrated by Helmut Zemo, T'Challa had set out to kill Winter Soldier, who was widely believed to be responsible for the attack. During his attempt to find Winter Soldier, Black Panther had joined a civil war between the Avengers, where he sided with Iron Man. However, when T'Challa learned that Zemo was the one who had been responsible for his father's demise, he captured Zemo and handed him over to Everett Ross, while he vowed never to allow desires of vengeance to consume him again.

Upon returning into Wakanda, T'Challa was officially crowned King and began to track down Ulysses Klaue. However, T'Challa failed to capture Klaue and instead was forced to bring Everett Ross to the city to save his life. T'Challa's leadership was challenged when his cousin, Erik Killmonger, came into Wakanda, having killed Klaue and challenged T'Challa for their throne. Killmonger bested T'Challa in a duel, taking the crown. However, T'Challa had survived the duel and, with the help of M'Baku and his family, returned to Wakanda where he defeated Killmonger. Following the conflict, T'Challa returned to the United Nations to share Wakanda's secret wealth with the rest of the world.

Black Panther was then called upon by the Avengers, as they had uncovered Thanos' plan to claim all six Infinity Stones. T'Challa allowed the Avengers to keep Vision in the city, where Shuri could remove the Mind Stone. However, Wakanda was then invaded by Thanos' forces, who ultimately overpowered the Wakandans as Thanos completed his goal by wiping out half of life, killing Black Panther as a result. However, Black Panther was resurrected five years later by Hulk, as he then joined the Avengers in a final battle against an alternate Thanos, ending in the Avengers' victory. Following this, T'Challa returned to his kingdom and reunited with his sister and mother, but he later unexpectedly passed away from an unspecified illness. Nonetheless, his legacy as the Black Panther was carried on by his sister, in addition to leaving behind a son that he had conceived with Nakia.

## Biography

### Early Life

#### Raised in Wakanda

 
T'Challa was born in Wakanda, an isolationist country located in Africa, to the reigning monarch T'Chaka and his wife Ramonda. He eventually had a younger sister named Shuri. Ramonda raised T'Challa and Shuri to love Wakanda, its people, and its legacy. Training for all of his life to take his father's place as the next Black Panther, T'Challa grew into a man with a highly active mind and despite T'Chaka's best efforts, a great dislike for politics. 

#### Becoming Black Panther

 track enemies of Wakanda]]
 
In 2008, his father would pass the mantle of Black Panther to T'Challa after reaching a certain age. The Art of the Avengers timeline 

One week after becoming the protector of Wakanda, T'Challa, as Black Panther, was sent with Okoye to save Wakandan hostages from Zanda and Douglas Scott. Black Panther took on Zanda as Okoye retrieved the hostages, and was shot in the shoulder by her vibranium bullets. Before she could kill him, however, Zanda moved to shoot the fleeing hostages, giving Black Panther the chance to overpower her and ensure the hostages escaped. Once the police stormed the building, the mercenaries fled, with Black Panther deciding to pursue them in his aircraft.

Following them to a yacht, Black Panther and Okoye took out the mercenaries and then confronted Zanda and Scott, with Black Panther killing Zanda by igniting one of her grenades and saving Okoye by dropping a metal bar on Scott's hands. 

### Avengers Civil War

#### Losing His Father

 
 ]]
In 2016, T'Challa was informed about the United Nations' decision to approve the Sokovia Accords in order to control and monitor the Avengers in the wake of the devastating battle in Lagos, during which several Wakandan citizens were killed. The Wakandan government chose to support the Accords as they felt the Avengers could become a true risk to the safety of Wakanda and the rest of the world considering their involvement in Ultron's creation.
 ]]
T'Challa and T'Chaka attended the conference at the Vienna International Centre in Vienna, Austria. They met Natasha Romanoff there and T'Challa spent time speaking with Romanoff where they had discussed the Accords and their shared discomfort of such political meetings. T'Challa commented on the fact that the last time Romanoff was in such company, she had just exposed S.H.I.E.L.D.'s secrets during the Hydra Uprising, claiming her dislike for politics made him happy to have seen her there.
 both express their love]]
Being comfortable with Romanoff, T'Challa expressed his opinion on the accords, saying he approves of it, but the politics were something he was not fond of, exemplifying two people in a room can get more done than a hundred. They were then interrupted by T'Chaka who had teased his son and greeted Romanoff, noting that Captain America had decided not to attend as he disagreed with the control the accords would put on his and the Avengers' actions. Once Romanoff had taken her own seat, T'Chaka then expressed his pride of seeing his son's skill at politics is getting better, thanking each other for their support during this difficult time for Wakanda's future.
 's life]]
During the conference, T'Challa's watched as his father then gave a speech about Wakanda's dark history and unfortunate involvement in the creation of deadly weapons made with vibranium, using these as his reasons for signing the accords. Upon hearing the commotion outside, T'Challa realized danger was incoming but was too late to stop his father being killed in a terrorist attack that was orchestrated by Helmut Zemo under the disguise of Bucky Barnes. While the fire was being put out, T'Challa mournfully took his late father's ring. 

#### Hunting the Winter Soldier

 ]]
 
While considering his next actions, T'Challa was greeted by Natasha Romanoff who expressed her own grief at T'Chaka's sudden death and informed him the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre would decide who was responsible with apprehending Barnes. T'Challa, however, then informed Romanoff that he intended to find and kill the Winter Soldier himself.
 ]]
T'Challa put on the Panther Habit in order to avenge his father's death. He then quickly managed to track the Winter Soldier down to where he had been hiding in Bucharest, where he fiercely attacked him. Despite being momentarily shocked by the arrival of such an unexpected enemy, the Winter Soldier quickly got to his feet and began fighting Black Panther but was overpowered by T'Challa's furious attacks.
 ]]
Using the incredibly sharp claws on his suit, Black Panther slashed at his enemy and tried to kill him, eventually pinning him to the ground and attempting to stab his target through the throat. When all hope looked lost for the Winter Soldier their battle finally stopped when a GSG 9 helicopter fired on Black Panther, with his own vibranium suit saving him. The Winter Soldier then attempted to escape by running off the side of the building, only for Black Panther to follow, grinding down the building's side.
 ]]
While the Winter Soldier attempted to escape by running on foot, the Black Panther hunted and chased Barnes down through a long traffic tunnel, pursued himself by Captain America and Falcon who were now attempting to aid the Winter Soldier's escape. Determined not to allow the man who seemingly killed T'Chaka to escape, Black Panther charged through the tunnels, as his enhanced speed allowed him to run past cars as he began to gain on the Winter Soldier.
 ]]
When Rogers commandeered a GSG 9 car to try and catch up to Barnes, who was escaping on a stolen motorbike, Black Panther jumped onto the back of the car to gain extra speed as well as jumping on the back of Falcon and flying through the tunnel, trying several times to knock Barnes off the motorcycle he was riding but finding that Barnes' prosthetic arm gave him an advantage as he was grabbed by the throat, but T'Challa soon recovered.
 
Eventually, Barnes reached the end of the tunnel and tried to use an explosive to block their way, only for Black Panther to leap through the blast and slice through Barnes' tires, causing his own bike to crash. Although Rogers stopped him from killing Barnes, they were all soon captured when War Machine and an entire police squad arrived and surrounded them, to which he unmasked and revealed himself as the King of Wakanda to the surprise of everybody. 

#### Held by Everett Ross

 
 
The police apprehended them all, who were now fugitives due to the new Sokovia Accords. The group was then brought into Berlin in an armored car to await their own punishments for all the chaos they caused. Along the way, T'Challa explained to Steve Rogers and Sam Wilson the history of the Black Panther and why he had targeted Bucky Barnes, while he desired to avenge T'Chaka and vowed that Rogers would not be able to keep Barnes safe from him for long.
 ]]
The group arrived at the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre Building and were soon greeted by Sharon Carter and her boss Everett Ross while Barnes was locked up in a maximum security prison of the German anti-terror police force GSG9. T'Challa was also brought into their custody and saw Captain America's Shield and EXO-7 Falcon being taken away. When Rogers questioned what would happen to Barnes, he was told he would be questioned by Ross' own men before being taken away to begin his sentence, which T'Challa seemed to agree with. Ross then explained that while he was there, T'Challa would be provided with an office rather than a prison cell to stay in. 
 ]]
While awaiting news on what would happen with the Winter Soldier at the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre Building, T'Challa was visited by Natasha Romanoff who expressed her surprise at his secret identity, citing that this now placed him under the Accords' jurisdiction. T'Challa noted he wanted to move on so he could take Barnes to Wakanda. As Romanoff claimed this would be unlikely, Everett Ross confirmed T'Challa had been granted Barnes' extradition. 

#### Hunting Bucky Barnes

 's escape]]
 
T'Challa waited as Winter Soldier was questioned by Helmut Zemo posing as the psychiatrist Theo Broussard. However, while T'Challa, Everett Ross, and the Avengers watched the questioning unfold, the power was shut off. Sensing that a more sinister plan was unfolding involving the Winter Soldier, who may be attempting to escape, T'Challa then went to investigate the incident himself further.
 ]]
Heading downstairs as chaos was erupting throughout the building, T'Challa discovered the Winter Soldier had escaped and was fighting against Natasha Romanoff and Sharon Carter who had, in turn, tried to save Tony Stark from the Winter Soldier's fury. Charging in before the clash could prove fatal, T'Challa managed to save Romanoff from being strangled by the Winter Soldier and engaged in a one on one fight with his enemy, determined for him not to get to escape.
 ]]
While they began to fight against each other, it was clear that T'Challa was not scared and proved to be lethal as Hydra assassin, although the Soldier was able to use his prosthetic arm to gain an advantage with strength, managing to knock T'Challa to the ground and tried to get away, although T'Challa soon got to his feet and reengaged with the Winter Soldier, seeing his Wakandan Royal Ring seemed to have some strange effect onto the Winter Soldier's prosthetic arm.
 ]]
T'Challa refused to allow his father's killer to escape and continued fighting, furiously striking against him before kicking him down the stairs. Once the pair continued their duel, T'Challa managed to gain the upper hand and knocked him off the balcony easily. However, losing sight of the Soldier proved to be a dangerous mistake as T'Challa leaped down to re-engage with his target, only to suddenly discover that the Winter Soldier had managed to get away.
 ]]
When T'Challa learned from his Attaché that the Winter Soldier had escaped from the building, seemingly with the help of Steve Rogers, he decided to use Wakanda's many resources to track him down. On his way out, he was stopped by Natasha Romanoff, who came close to fighting Ayo, his security chief. T'Challa spoke to Romanoff politely and explained his current plan, however, Romanoff offered him a new alternative, to join Stark's team of Avengers members in finding and capturing Rogers along with the Winter Soldier for Thaddeus Ross. Knowing that this would prove to be a much faster method of finding and killing his target, T'Challa agreed to join Stark's team. 

#### Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport

 ]]
 
Having joined Iron Man's side, Black Panther eventually found and ambushed Captain America at the Leipzig-Halle Airport, greeting Rogers with respect while Stark continued to argue about the Sokovia Accords while Spider-Man arrived and took away his shield to ensure that he could not fight back, as Stark tried to convince him to surrender himself over to the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre for interrogation.
 ]]
However, Rogers remained confident and had Hawkeye free him from Spider-Man's webbing and Ant-Man gave him back his shield. As Iron Man scanned the area, he spotted the Winter Soldier, who Black Panther attempted to go after, only for Rogers to stand in his way. When Rogers ignored T'Challa's warning to get out of his way, they engaged in a fierce fight, where the claws on his own Panther Habit caused permanent scratch marks on Rogers' shield.
 
T'Challa teamed up with War Machine during the fight but they both proved to be bested by Captain America, who fought them both off while disarming War Machine's weapons. The fight was stopped when Captain America and Ant-Man used a Pym Particle Disc to enlarge and throw a large fire truck towards T'Challa, War Machine and Black Widow, much to their annoyance as both T'Challa and Widow managed to dodge the explosion while Rhodes was hit with full on the force, knocking him painfully backward.
 ]]
As Rogers and the rest of his team attempted to make their way to the Avengers' Quinjet to make their escape from the airport, their path was soon stopped by Vision, who used the Mind Stone to block their path. T'Challa joined the rest of Iron Man's team as the two opposing sides later gathered up to charge against their former allies, T'Challa first targeted the man he was desperate to get revenge on and who was seemingly responsible for the terrorist attacks.
 ]]
During the fight, Winter Soldier tried to convince T'Challa that he wasn't the one who murdered T'Chaka, but T'Challa only questioned why he had run away if he was innocent. He almost succeeded to kill the wrong suspect as he pulled away from his prosthetic arm and then attempted to cut his throat, but Wanda Maximoff intervened and stopped his claws from reaching Barnes, and threw T'Challa through a distance with her powers, hitting a jet bridge. 

#### Losing His Target

 ]]
 
Later, T'Challa spotted both Captain America and the Winter Soldier attempting to escape with a Quinjet which was inside the hangar, but Giant-Man held him and all the rest of Iron Man's team back. When keeping Spider-Man, Iron Man and War Machine away from his team, Ant-Man kicked a bus at T'Challa, only to be saved at the last second by Vision intervening and blocking the bus with his own vibranium body.
 ]]
With Vision's help, T'Challa was able to elude Ant-Man to reach the Quinjet Hangar. Before he could do so, Hawkeye tried keeping T'Challa at bay by firing many of his explosive arrows directly at him. T'Challa dodged many of the arrows and caught two before they exploded right in his face, angering him enough to fight Hawkeye by showing him his vibranium claws unleashed from his own Panther Habit as the Black Panther prepared to fight his legendary attacker.
 ]]
Seeing that his current fighting technique was not working and still attempting to ensure his ally's escape, Hawkeye turned his bow into a bow staff and introduced himself to T'Challa, since they had never been introduced before this point, with the latter replying that he did not care who he was fighting. The pair started fighting one another until T'Challa broke his staff in half and knocked Hawkeye out of the fight, before then continuing his pursuit to the Quinjet Hangar.
 
Despite the best efforts of Vision to block them, Rogers and Barnes reached the hangar due to the Wanda Maximoff's interference. Panther came close to them, only to be stunned multiple times by the Black Widow's Widow Bite, allowing Rogers and Barnes to escape, despite T'Challa trying to get a hold of the Quinjet. Romanoff claimed she had only promised to help him find them but not kill. T'Challa was furious with her and he later reported her betrayal to Thaddeus Ross, who initiated a manhunt for her. 

#### Setting Vengeance Aside

 ]]
 
Having had a meeting with Thaddeus Ross on board the Raft prison where he had a top-secret meeting with Falcon, Tony Stark discovered the location of the now fugitives Captain America and the Winter Soldier. Once Stark had put on his Iron Man suit and went to find them, T'Challa secretly followed Stark while onboard his jet towards Siberia, where the Winter Soldier laboratory was located.
 's plans]]
T'Challa then successfully infiltrated the building with the plan to kill Barnes; following close behind as Iron Man had made peace with Rogers. However, T'Challa overheard the conversation between Rogers and Helmut Zemo, in which he had confessed to killing all the other Winter Soldiers and admitted to framing Barnes for the Vienna bombing. Having learned this truth that he had been hunting the wrong person, Black Panther focused his efforts on Zemo himself.
 ]]
While Zemo rested on top of a hill outside the missile bunker, certain that he had succeeded in pitting Iron Man and Captain America against each other, T'Challa quietly confronted him. Zemo explained to T'Challa the reason for his crimes: his family had been among the casualties of the Battle of Sokovia and that he wanted to tear apart the Avengers as revenge. Zemo also admitted that T'Chaka's death was not intended and apologized for it, saying that T'Chaka was a good man and had a dutiful son.
 ]]
Recognizing his own rage in Zemo and seeing how vengeance had consumed not only Zemo but Stark and himself, T'Challa decided to spare Zemo and even stopped him from committing suicide, using his vibranium-protected hand to block the gunshot, telling Zemo he still needed to answer to the living for his crimes. Binding his prisoner, T'Challa reunited with Rogers and Barnes, telling Barnes that he had assets in Wakanda that could remove all Hydra's programming in his mind. 

#### Handing Over Zemo

T'Challa flew Zemo back to Berlin on a Royal Talon Fighter to hand him over to Everett Ross for his punishment. 

### King of Wakanda

#### Rescuing Nakia

 ]]
 
A week after his his father's death at Helmut Zemo's hands, T'Challa was preparing to be formally crowned king. However, T'Challa decided to retrieve Nakia from her current War Dogs mission as he wished for her to be present during his coronation. Picked up by Okoye in the Royal Talon Fighter, the two flew to Nigeria where Nakia was located.
 that he never freezes]]
Preparing for his mission and equipping his Panther Habit, T'Challa used one of the tablets to look at where Nakia and the are located, informed by Okoye where they're heading for the border of Wakanda. He was then given EMP Beads to disable their kidnappers' vehicles but before he was dropped down to the field, Okoye told him to not freeze when he sees Nakia, remarking that he never freezes.
 
Holding himself with a Wakandan pose, T'Challa was dropped down by a chute hole on the ground of a Royal Talon Fighter, diving in the air and looking down to see the group driving to their destination. T'Challa sends EMP beads downward onto their trucks, immediately delivered a powerful EMP which forced all the vehicles to stop and made them unable to start again. Taking the opportunity, T'Challa landed onto a tree and stealthily wait until traffickers approached him.
 
As the traffickers noticed the trucks were hit by an EMP, they regrouped by splitting each other up in one location until one of them found a dog barking and suddenly T'Challa was spotted and began to attack the man by sending him off and hit a car door, instantly knocking him down. T'Challa then began to fight against several traffickers with guns shooting at but was impervious to bullets, leading to him defending off of them one by one.
 on his mission]]
While taking down multiple men, T'Challa took attention to the particular one who was shooting at him, ready to kill on sight, Nakia stopped him and told that the shooter was just a boy and was kidnapped alongside the women who were as well. T'Challa took a moment to look at Nakia, having her attention only to simply greet her. Wanting to talk to her, T'Challa was interrupted by another man, threatening to shoot one of the women, only for him to get killed Okoye.
 to his coronation]]
Once Okoye killed the shooter with her Vibranium Spear, T'Challa was teased by her for his lack focused, leading him to freeze. T'Challa took off his mask and looked towards Nakia, she told them that they ruined her mission but T'Challa took it upon in urgency to tell her that his father was dead and is going to be crowned as King the next day. Nakia accepted his invitation and walked together in their Royal Talon Fighter, saving the kidnapped women and a child soldier.
 relax inside the ship]]
Upon on the horizon, T'Challa and Okoye succeeded their mission and head on home to Wakanda with Nakia. As the sun rises from above, T'Challa was comforted by Nakia, as he was deeply saddened from his father's death. While getting together, Okoye announced their arrival as they flew by the border and into the holographic dome, reaching into Wakanda's capital known as Birnin Zana. 

#### Coronation

 ]]
 
Upon arriving at Birnin Zana, T'Challa was greeted by Ramonda and Shuri, who held great expectations for him as the new heir. As Nakia left to go to her tribe, Shuri asked Okoye if T'Challa froze during his mission, to which Okoye responded with a resounding insult, much to T'Challa's dismay of mockery. As the Dora Milaje left, T'Challa greeted Shuri for being on with him, asked for her EMP Beads, he was updated on a new habit only for him to be in disbelief, resulting into bantering with Shuri for her inventions.
 is feeling]]
T'Challa remarked at Shuri as she left with EMP beads that he can not wait for what update she would bring to her invention. Upon receiving a middle finger by Shuri, T'Challa asked how is she is feeling, to which she responded by saying she was proud, noting his father and her were talking about the coronation all the time, missing him, she told T'Challa that he is with them but now it was time for him to be crowned as King of Wakanda.
 
As the four of the tribes of Wakanda arrive the next day after a ceremonial celebration of the Prince's coronation, T'Challa prepares himself inside the Royal Talon Fighter and walks into the arena of Warrior Falls. Zuri came to explain the challenge and went off to give T'Challa a potion to let the powers of the Black Panther to be stripped away, leading him to feel nauseous, quickly recovered from it.
 's challenge]]
Once the challenge became fair, Zuri asked every tribe from any royal bloodline to fight for the throne, only for all of them to decline to challenge the throne, Shuri then raised her hand up and told Zuri that her dress is feeling uncomfortable and asked for her and the rest of the people to go home only to be mocked for the public. The Jabari Tribe led by M'Baku, arrived to challenge for the throne, ranting about how Wakanda has progressed and how the Prince of the country couldn't keep his father safe.
 in combat]]
While outright mocking T'Challa and his father, T'Challa willingly accepted M'Baku's challenge. As they prepare for their intense duel, T'Challa was put on a panther mask and was guarded behind by the Dora Milaje while M'Baku did it with his own tribe. They began to fight each other as they threw multiple blows that resulted in each other getting hit or dodging with each swing of their weapons.
 to yield]]
As their fight began to be difficult towards T'Challa, M'Baku then broke his weapons during the duel, as they began trading blows only for T'Challa to be caught off guard in his grasp. Severely wounded, M'Baku was mocking him for being just a boy without his mantle, but his family cheered him off, leading him to fight back. Getting impaled afterward, T'Challa yelled at M'Baku that he is who he is and proceeded to remove the blade and attacked M'Baku with a chokehold.
 ]]
Despite pinning him down, T'Challa decided to spare M'Baku, saying that his people need him, and yelling at him to yield before he would die. Once M'Baku forfeited, T'Challa took a breath to finally recover from his injuries. As the crowd went wild with excitement and with his family supporting him, T'Challa was crowned as King of Wakanda. Branding himself with Bashenga's necklace, Commentary with director Ryan Coogler and production designer Hannah Beachler T'Challa hugged Zuri as he thanked him as he was remarked as a King. 

#### Visiting his Father

 ]]
 
Following his challenge for the throne, T'Challa went to the cave where his ancestors gain the power of the Black Panther, with many women and children setting up the ceremony and getting the Heart-Shaped Herb for consumption. As T'Challa laid down on the sand, Zuri gave him the potion of the herb, letting him consume it. While manifesting his powers, T'Challa was buried deep into the sand, as his body began to quickly dissolve due to the side effects of the herb.
 in the Ancestral Plane]]
In the Ancestral Plane, T'Challa woke up from the sand he was buried in and noticed inside the plane was a grassland field with purple skyline across it, noticing a group of black panthers on top of a tree. As one approached, turning into his father, T'Challa became incredibly shocked the sight of him being with him hugged him as he cries for his forgiveness and kneeled down before him, only to get a remark from him being a King of Wakanda.
 
Once he picked himself up to talk to his father, T'Challa told him that he wasn't ready to be King just yet but T'Chaka told him that he trained and studied for all his life to be King. T'Challa told his father that was not what he was talking about, telling him he was not ready to be King without his father, leading T'Chaka to tell him that he is a good man with a good heart and its hard for a good man to be a great King. With that revelation, T'Challa awoke from his burial and told Zuri that his father was in the Ancestral Plane. 

#### Council with Zuri

 's life]]
 
Following his reunion with T'Chaka in the Ancestral Plane, T'Challa spoke with Zuri about how he became the Black Panther. He remembered watching his father rule as Black Panther, performing amazing feats, but was told by T'Chaka that he'd gotten too old for the mantle, and passed it to his son so that he may rule simply as King. However, Zuri claimed that the only reason T'Chaka had given it up was that he'd gotten too fat to fit the Panther Habit, much to both of their amusement.
 's past motives]]
T'Challa then mournfully stated that he'd tried to keep his father from speaking in Vienna, and questioned why his father abandoned the isolationist ideas he'd raised T'Challa to follow. Zuri responded by stating that time changed T'Chaka, causing him to look back on his actions in the past, and attempt to correct them. 

#### Getting a Message

 walking around the city]]
 
Having finished his coronation for today, T'Challa took the time to walk with Nakia on the streets of Birnin Zana, wanting to have her stay there; however, she decided not to as she wanted to support his father and that she isn't happy to abandon any other people that have nothing.
 about her ideas]]
T'Challa then asked what would Nakia do about Wakanda and told him that provide aid, access to technology, and refuge to those who need it, using other countries as an example and do them better than them. T'Challa rebuttals Nakia's motives, saying that Wakanda would lose its way of life despite how she tells him that the country can help refugees and protect themselves. T'Challa remarks that she would make a stubborn Queen, but was responded by him that she would make a great queen because of her stubbornness.
 about Wakanda]]
T'Challa then took the time to visit the Border Tribe and see how W'Kabi was doing in his farm, looking at one of his White Rhinoceros and commenting on how it is still growing with all the food it is consuming. T'Challa was later asked if Nakia and he were working things with each other, only for him to become silent about it. Having W'Kabi telling him what was wrong, T'Challa was thinking about Nakia's idea of foreign aid, listening to W'Kabi that if refugees gain access to the country they'll bring their problems.
 's return]]
After talking about aiding other countries with W'Kabi, T'Challa was contacted by Okoye and greeted W'Kabi as her love, she informed that a misidentified Wakandan artifact was stolen at the Museum of Great Britain, learning that Ulysses Klaue has plans to sell it to an American buyer in South Korea. Inside the council, T'Challa decides to pursue Klaue, promising W'Kabi that he will kill where he stands, and proceeding with the mission. 

#### Upgrades

 with his guards]]
 
Gaining information from Okoye about Ulysses Klaue about his plans to sell Wakandan artifacts, T'Challa started his mission by deciding to go inside of Shuri's lab with his Dora Milaje beside him along the way. Once T'Challa entered inside the Great Mound where the lab was located, he greeted the other guards who were protecting their doorways, seeing Shuri waiting for him and greeting him as a King.
 's updates]]
As Shuri was mockingly introducing her brother, T'Challa told her to stop it while chuckling with laughter and committed a handshake with her. T'Challa was then being toured around back to her lab to show him new improvements to his equipment, such as a vibranium car that was sent to Busan to take it on his upcoming mission. When Shuri asked who would be coming along with his mission, T'Challa responded that Okoye and Nakia would be with him, saying it would be fine to take his ex-lover on the mission, considering that Shuri would be called for backup.
 ]]
Looking further into the lab, T'Challa was introduced with new communication devices with unlimited range, equipped with an audio surveillance system, and new Kimoyo beads. T'Challa then asked what the new Sneakers were that were showcased, only to be made fun of for wearing royal sandals from Shuri. Despite being made fun of, T'Challa showed off his sandals, saying he decided to go old school for his first day as King.
 
Once he wore his new sneakers, T'Challa was impressed with how it was automated and soundproof, to which he was made fun of again by Shuri for calling them Sneakers. Shuri then showcased the most significant change to his Panther Habit, which T'Challa told that his previous design was set for an update, Shuri countered that it was functional, it could be changed, making fun that if people were shooting at him, he would need put on his helmet.
 ]]
T'Challa was then introduced to a model with a golden necklace, but T'Challa proposed the idea to not be seen, so he decided to pick the model with a silver necklace. Shuri then asked T'Challa to summon the Panther Habit, letting it materialize, stored into the necklace when not in use. T'Challa was then asked to strike it, only for Shuri to angrily yell at him. T'Challa then noticed that the suit was glowing, as he was informed that it could absorb damage and emit it back for redistribution.
 to delete her video]]
T'Challa was then asked to kick the Panther Habit again at the same spot; however, Shuri started to video record from her Kimoyo beads; getting suspicious, T'Challa asked why she was recording him before he could kick the mannequin. After Shuri responded that it was only for research purposes, T'Challa proceeded to kick the model, only for the kinetic energy to blow on impact, sending him flying. Lying on the ground, T'Challa demanded a laughing Shuri to delete the humiliating footage of him. 

#### Manhunt for Ulysses Klaue

 and Okoye]]
 
Once he learned that Ulysses Klaue had stolen a vibranium artifact from the Museum of Great Britain and was planning to sell it on the black market, T'Challa used his new Panther Habit intact and traveled to Busan to arrest Ulysses Klaue. T'Challa then assigned Okoye to come along with the mission with Nakia in their car, arriving at South Korea.
 about their mission]]
Getting out of the car, T'Challa arrived at a fish market that held a casino clubhouse behind the store owners' marketplace. Following Nakia, he listened to her talking to a woman who owned a fish market business, telling her to gain passage with her friends, despite looking like she became too suspicious, she would then let them come into the casino. T'Challa went past the security check, walking inside the casino and focusing on the mission to find the buyer. T'Challa told Okoye to stay on the lookout on where they arrived and courted Nakia off the staircase to talk closely on how the mission would proceed.
 in the casino]]
When Okoye interrupted their conversation in an intercom, T'Challa and Nakia separated from each other, noticing Everett Ross, noting that this mission had gotten complicated. Surprised to find that Ross was the buyer of Klaue, T'Challa greeted and questioned Ross' motives. Ross pointed that he would not listen after knowing that he wore a bulletproof cat-suit; despite being confronted for his secret, T'Challa swore to him that Klaue would be taken into custody by him.
 ' deal]]
Telling him to stay away from Klaue, T'Challa left the casino and stayed in the distance until Klaue entered the room. Ross would return to T'Challa and noted that the vibranium that Klaue had managed to steal appeared to link back to what was used by Ultron during the Battle of Sokovia, promising that they could then discuss handing Klaue over to T'Challa once the CIA was finished with him, but T'Challa refused to make a deal.
 
Eventually, Ulysses Klaue arrived at the Jagalchi Market Casino, with Klaue surrounded by bodyguards who filled up the casino as Klaue went downstairs to make the exchange with Ross. T'Challa informed Okoye that Klaue was with Ross; noticing more Americans surrounding Klaue, T'Challa stood across the room to hear about the deal. Noticing commotion, T'Challa told Okoye to stand her ground and not bring attention to Klaue's henchmen. However, once Okoye decided to fight, T'Challa noticed one of them landed on the pool table.
 ]]
However, the exchange was then unexpectedly interrupted by the position of Okoye, resulting in T'Challa furiously throwing one of Klaue's bodyguards away to save Ross' back from the shootout. Seeing this, T'Challa then apprehended one of Klaue's henchmen and fought against multiple of them in the middle of the room. T'Challa looked over the balcony to see Klaue getting away from the scene, then he leaped over the top and yelled at him for being a murderer.
 
Once Klaue shot at him with his sonic arm cannon, T'Challa got up from the ground after getting knocked out from the balcony. T'Challa called Shuri once he got out of the casino, telling her to drive and quickly equipped the new Panther Habit and backflipped onto the car. As he stood onto the car, T'Challa was taken up for a ride, chasing one of Klaue's henchmen and took a turn from the car once they noticed a lane with an intersection.
 
Chasing Klaue's henchmen outside of their van, T'Challa pursued them through at the back of the van with help from Shuri to drive closer to it. While stopping the thugs, T'Challa ripped through the roof and threw one of the drivers that landed on the ground and killed by Shuri, as an accident. Once he subdued the last henchmen inside the car, T'Challa managed to hop onto the car and entered in the freeway.
 
Going into a bridge, T'Challa saw one of the henchmen begin to shoot him down, withstanding the bullets coming into contact with him. T'Challa then listened to Shuri about how he was charged with kinetic energy and needed to release it. Having an idea, T'Challa told Shuri to drive past the other car and in front of the henchmen's van. T'Challa managed to land onto the van and disable the ride with a kinetic pulse, doing a backflip and landed onto the car.
 ]]
Following the last vehicle, T'Challa prepared to kill Klaue, noticing that he was in the passenger seat. Once Klaue noticed him on the spot, T'Challa dodged away from the sonic cannon while the car was blown away, T'Challa landed onto the ceiling wall of a neon sign and leaped onto the side the van, shoving his claws into wheels, disabling the car. T'Challa landed onto the ground as the van crashed toward a fruit market.
 ]]
After the van crashed, T'Challa madly walked up to Klaue and equipped his claws, absorbing the blast with his Panther Habit and then ripped Klaue's prosthetic arm off. Getting close, T'Challa yelled at Klaue, telling him about the people he killed. Being called a savage, T'Challa threatened to kill Klaue outright, but after Nakia arrived to see him and told him that hundreds of eyewitnesses were present in the plaza, he handed him over to Ross. 

#### Klaue's Escape

 from glass]]
 
With Ulysses Klaue finally in their custody, T'Challa decided to take him back to CIA South Korean Black Site to answer for his crimes. Taken into the interrogation room, T'Challa and Okoye looked after Klaue as he was handcuffed to chair from his hands and ankles. While Klaue was mockingly kissing at their mirrored glass while he was standing, T'Challa listened to Everett Ross, who suggested that he would speak with Klaue for five minutes, Okoye spoke to T'Challa in Xhosa, about not leaving Klaue with Ross, responding that he will take him to Wakanda after Ross is done with questioning.
 for his help]]
Speaking in English again, T'Challa insisted that he allowed taking Klaue back to Wakanda once Ross finished his interrogation, which Ross rejected. When Ross casually tapped T'Challa on the chest, Okoye threatened him in Xhosa, telling T'Challa she would impale him to this desk if he would touch him. Leading Ross to go inside the other room, T'Challa interrupted Ross before going inside, placing his hand onto his shoulder and thanked him for all of his help with capturing Klaue.
 
Unbeknownst to Ross, T'Challa had secretly planted a listening device on the agent, so he could listen to their conversation. In the room, Klaue recommended that Ross put more trust in him rather than the Wakandans, which Ross dismissed before asking about Klaue's prosthetic arm and where Klaue had gotten it from. Klaue explained that the arm was an old mining tool which he had modified. Listening further, T'Challa realized that Klaue was spilling out information about Wakanda that should not be said.
 ]]
During his interrogation, Klaue explained to Ross that Wakanda is not a third-world country as everyone was led to believe, and the vibranium he had stolen was insignificant to the mass amount they possessed to date. Once Ross stepped out of the room T'Challa was confronted over Klaue's claims about Wakanda, being told at the U.N., that Klaue had stolen all of the vibranium that they had, although T'Challa had retorted such statements, he was furthered questioned.
 
As Ross confronted T'Challa about the truth of his country, he was informed by Nakia that an attack is being held at the moment, only for an explosion to hit near them in the interrogation room. When an armed gunman breached the wall of the interrogation room, he threw a grenade at the office, T'Challa equipped his Panther Habit to stop it from exploding. Once he stopped the grenade, T'Challa stood up to see that Klaue was abducted.
 about the attack]]
Noticing Klaue escaping in their grasp, T'Challa chased them only for one of them holding a grenade launcher and aimed it at T'Challa, exploding on impact. After being saved by the blast in his suit, T'Challa hesitated after seeing a man wearing a Wakandan Royal Ring around his neck similar to his father's, allowing them to escape. Getting up from the ground, T'Challa was informed that Ross was shot in the spine, looking back he decided to go inside again.
 to his country]]
Into the room, T'Challa returned to the others to find that Ross had been severely injured while protecting Nakia. As Ross dove on top of Nakia and taking a bullet into his spine as a result, T'Challa used a Kimoyo bead to stabilize his wound. Understanding the risks of bringing a foreign agent into his home, T'Challa ordered Ross brought to Wakanda to heal him in gratitude for saving Nakia. 

#### Saving Agent Ross

 to Wakanda]]
 
Despite Okoye's objections, T'Challa brought Everett Ross back to Wakanda, taking him inside the Royal Talon Fighter and traveled back to Wakanda. Standing above Ross from his medical bed, T'Challa was asked by Okoye about how should they justify bringing him to the country. T'Challa responded that since he could not just let Ross die knowing that they were there, they could save him due to their medical advancements.
 into Shuri's lab]]
Bringing Ross to Shuri's lab, T'Challa put Ross on the medical board and took him down the hallway with Okoye and Nakia beside him. Taking in his care, Shuri looked at Ross and was quite pleased that her brother brought "another broken white boy" for her to fix, T'Challa then placed onto the table and let Shuri examine his spine with her Kimoyo bead. Analyzing Ross' X-ray scan, T'Challa was informed by Shuri that he would survive from the injuries.
 that he lost Klaue]]
Noticing a call, T'Challa walked over to W'Kabi who arrived for Ulysses Klaue's return for his crimes. When asked if he brought Klaue, T'Challa told W'Kabi that Klaue was slipped through from their hands. Seeing W'Kabi disappointed, T'Challa was told that when his father took over as King for thirty years, he did nothing and having his friend would be different. Watching W'Kabi leave, T'Challa was left in distraught on how close he apprehended Klaue. 

#### Skeletons in the Closet

 ]]
 
T'Challa confronted Zuri and demanded the truth about N'Jobu, whom T'Chaka said disappeared one day. He went on to explain the arrival of a man wearing his grandfather's royal ring who helped Ulysses Klaue escape from capture. Zuri, hesitant, stated that he had promised T'Chaka, his former king, he would not tell of N'Jobu's fate, but T'Challa furiously stated he is the current King of Wakanda.
 ]]
Reluctantly, Zuri explained that N'Jobu fell in love with an American woman while on a War Dog assignment, and was discovered through Zuri to have hired Klaue less than thirty years ago to steal vibranium from the country to aid in the in America after witnessing the tragedies happening to the African Americans there. N'Jobu was upset that T'Chaka couldn't understand the need to share the rare metal with the rest of the Africans in the world.
 ]]
When T'Chaka ordered his brother to return and face punishment, N'Jobu pulled a gun on Zuri for betraying him but was quickly disarmed and killed by T'Chaka, leaving the king heartbroken, ordering Zuri to keep his actions a secret. Zuri explained that T'Chaka knew of N'Jobu's child with the American woman, but decided to leave the boy behind to maintain the lie that N'Jobu disappeared. T'Challa was left appalled by his father's action of lying about his uncle and orphaning his cousin.
 for advice]]
Sitting near a cliff with Nakia, T'Challa talked to her about his father killing his uncle and left his cousin, a child, behind with nothing, questioning why would he would do such thing. T'Challa was told by Nakia that no man is perfect. T'Challa realized that his father never gave him a proper burial, after his uncle betrayed their family, thinking he may have created something even worse. Despite his concern, Nakia advises T'Challa that he must not let his father's mistakes determine what T'Challa will do as the king.
 
Having a call from his Kimoyo bead, T'Challa was informed by Shuri that she had some important news that he must attend to the lab. Having been joined by Everett Ross and Shuri, T'Challa listened to the group on everything he knew of Erik Stevens' background as a member of a highly trained section of the United States Navy SEALs where he got a reputation as a killer, nicknamed Killmonger. While Ross explains and the other Wakandans listened closely, T'Challa began looking at Killmonger's record. 

### Battle for the Throne

#### Meeting Erik Killmonger

 's arrival]]
 
Returning to Birnin Zana, T'Challa held a meeting with the Tribal Council, when Erik Killmonger was brought up to the council with W'Kabi, who was presented with Ulysses Klaue's corpse at the border of Wakanda, much to T'Challa's surprise.
 ]]
Once Killmonger was invited to speak, T'Challa was told that he is standing in the room, further noting that he had served justice to Wakandans by killing Klaue who had been responsible for the previous Attack on Wakanda and had stolen vibranium, telling to council that he was able to deliver justice to the country. Angered by this insult, T'Challa got up from his throne and personally confronted Killmonger, walking up to him, closely followed by Okoye. T'Challa pointedly clarified that he doesn't care about him bringing Klaue and the only reason he didn't kill him where he stands is that he knew who Killmonger really was.
 's motives]]
Asking a question, T'Challa listened to Killmonger, saying that he wanted the throne. Noticing the council was sitting down comfortably, Killmonger told T'Challa that two billion people all over the world that look like his ethnicity, saying their lives are a lot harder and Wakanda has the tools to liberate. T'Challa then asked for what kind of tools is Killmonger wanting, abruptly told that it was vibranium. Aggressively, T'Challa responded that he will wage war on the world.
 's name]]
T'Challa would counter that it is not Wakanda's way to be judge, jury, and executioner for people who are not their own. Killmonger retorted by asking that life started in right on the continent of Africa, all people should be his people. T'Challa responded that he is not King of all people, only a King of Wakanda, telling it was his responsibility to make sure his people are safe and that vibranium does not fall into the hands of a person like Killmonger.
 's challenge]]
Demanding the king to ask his name, T'Challa dismiss Killmonger's request and told his guards to take him away. However, when the River Tribe Elder asked for Killmonger's identity, Killmonger told what his name was N'Jadaka and was the son of N'Jobu in , taking T'Challa by surprise. With evidence by W'Kabi showing his ring, T'Challa was challenged for the throne and the Black Panther mantle. Pondering on the idea, T'Challa decided to accept the challenge. 

#### Killmonger's Challenge

 to not fight]]
 
As they had prepared for the duel, T'Challa and Erik Killmonger were both taken to Warrior Falls where Killmonger was then given his spear and sword, while the Tribal Council watched closely. Zuri used a potion to stripped T'Challa's powers of the Black Panther strength, leaving them on equal footing ready for the challenge.
 ]]
Once he stood back up, T'Challa gave Killmonger one final chance to lay down all his weapons so they could handle the situation another way. Instead, Killmonger then removed his Bulletproof Vest and shirt, revealing his tribal , and told him how he had lived his entire life for this one moment, noting how he had killed all across the world, including Afghanistan, Iraq, and Africa, just so that he could kill T'Challa. With everything in place, Zuri had then announced that the challenge could begin as T'Challa immediately began on the defensive as Killmonger attacked him by swinging his weapons, landing a deadly blow against him.
 's attacks]]
With all of Killmonger's military training allowed him to push him back, T'Challa soon found that his skills with the tribal weapons took the advantage as he managed to lock Killmonger into a block and held him back, using his shield to defend himself. As Killmonger became frustrated, T'Challa endured several heavy strikes that were landed against him repeatedly, in an attempt to beat him into submission. However, T'Challa was able to use all Killmonger's rage against him, knocking him off balance and onto his back, telling Killmonger to yield the duel.
 ]]
After Killmonger refused to back down once he got back onto his feet, T'Challa continued gaining the advantage as he sliced Killmonger across the face with a non-fatal strike. When Killmonger stood back up, T'Challa continued to gain the upper hand at first, eventually, Killmonger was able to land a heavy kick and managed to slice T'Challa across his inner thigh. Once he was hurt, T'Challa was beaten down before being sliced across the chest and arm.
 's death]]
When T'Challa then attempted to punch Killmonger, T'Challa was easily beaten down in front of his horrified family. Killmonger then raised his blade and prepared to execute T'Challa, telling him that it would in revenge for T'Chaka killing his own father. Before Killmonger could deliver the final blow, Zuri intervened, claiming that he was truly responsible for his father's death and that he should take his life instead. Despite that, T'Challa told Zuri to not stop the duel, Killmonger happily obliged.
 
Distraught over Zuri's untimely death, T'Challa lunged at Killmonger once more but missed. As Killmonger stood over, T'Challa was now unable to get up as he called out to those watching and claimed that T'Challa would never be able to lead them and was unworthy of being Black Panther. Once he finally gathered enough strength to try and fight back, T'Challa was picked up on his feet before throwing him off the side of Warrior Falls and landed into shore. 

#### Saved by the Jabari Tribe

 ]]
 
Flowing all the water shores, T'Challa was found in the Jabari Land in the freezing rivers where their fisherman was doing their labor and brought him back to their domain. M'Baku decided to save his life as repayment for his mercy at the falls earlier. Unconscious, T'Challa was in a comatose state and covered in snow before almost dying from the wounds he endured.
 ]]
Once Nakia, Ramonda, Shuri and Everett Ross had escaped from Erik Killmonger's consolidated power, they were taken into M'Baku's chamber and attempted to give away one the Heart-Shaped Herbs. M'Baku then had shown T'Challa in his comatose condition, stabilized by the surrounding snow, Ramonda remembered to use the herb to bring him back. Awaking in the Ancestral Plane, T'Challa was greeted by T'Chaka and invited to join him and the rest of his ancestors.
 
Instead of staying with his father, T'Challa was furious at T'Chaka for what happened to his uncle and cousin and angered by the other Black Panthers for how their strict isolationism has led to suffering around the world. T'Challa declared his work wasn't done yet and must take the mantle back and write the wrongs of his father. In the brisk of the cold climate, T'Challa woke up in the relief of his loved ones, looking at everyone in his direction and asked for a blanket as they laughed and smiled from his remark. 

#### Agreement with M'Baku

 
Once he had rested in M'Baku's land until morning dawn, T'Challa was informed that Erik Killmonger was reigning supreme in Wakanda, having the full support of the military and burned the garden of the Heart-Shaped Herb, as he was trained to destabilize foreign countries. Informed that their weapons will be sent all over the world, T'Challa declared that he must get his family out of Wakanda safely, saying that his challenge would have to continue.
 
Arguing that his duty was to keep his people safe, T'Challa responded that if Killmonger should control over their technology, nowhere would be safe. When Shuri got up from her seat, T'Challa was given his silver necklace that will equip his Panther Habit, saying that the Black Panther lives and will be right there beside him, as Nakia and Everett Ross decided to join in the fight alongside him. As they have a moment of uniting as a team, T'Challa was caught off guard when M'Baku was yawning very loudly and asking them if they were done talking before they could take action.
 's tribe to fight]]
Ordering his family, Nakia, and Ross to leave the room for privacy, T'Challa thanked M'Baku for saving his life as they both gained truce once M'Baku expressed he spared his life in their duel for the throne. Once they were settled down, T'Challa requested that his mother to stay with his land and he and the rest of the Jabari Tribe would help overthrow Killmonger, M'Baku agreed with his statement but in a serious manner, he quickly declined.
 to himself]]
Saying that he is the first King to come for his tribe in centuries, M'Baku questions that he spoke for his tribe, T'Challa retorted that he can't speak for all the Kings in the past but with Killmonger on the throne, he proposed who will be next the group of people to overthrow. With M'Baku declining to help, T'Challa and his group left the tribe, with Panther Habit prepared for the coming battle. 

#### Battle of Mount Bashenga

 ]]
 
Preparing for battle, T'Challa went over to Wakanda while Nakia, Shuri, and Everett Ross secretly go over there to sneak around the Great Mound. As Erik Killmonger and the Border Tribe prepared to deliver vibranium weapons to War Dogs around the world, T'Challa destroyed the aircraft, crashing into the ground.
 ]]
With the aircraft on fire, T'Challa emerged from the debris and removed his mask to reveal his identity. T'Challa then walked over the field and yelled at Killmonger, shouting his real name and that he never yielded nor was killed in his challenge with him. Despite that, Killmonger stated that the Ritual Combat was over. Killmonger then ordered W'Kabi to kill T'Challa and the Border Tribe began to charge at him. At this defiance of the challenge, Okoye and the Dora Milaje considered Killmonger's claim to the throne now forfeited and turned against him in defense of T'Challa as the rightful King. Black Panther called Shuri to move along inside the lab and began to fight the Border Tribe.
 
When the Border Tribe's use of defense shields, T'Challa jumped over them and used his kinetic pulse to release, resulting into exploding on impact, grabbing onto one of the soldiers' Sonic Spears and threw it at one of the aircraft. As the destruction started to brew more attention, half of the Dora Milaje were sent down to battle out W'Kabi's men, fighting for the King. On the brink of the battle, T'Challa subdued many of W'Kabi's soldiers that were attacking him.
 ]]
As the battle when on, T'Challa took off his mask and confronted W'Kabi, telling him to stop his soldiers from fighting, but refusing to listen to him, W'Kabi continued to blow on his airhorn, much to T'Challa shouting no to him. As the Border tribe members shout over the airhorn, the White Rhinoceros began to huddle in groups and crash into the broken aircraft that T'Challa recently destroyed. After the Rhinos hit several Dora Milaje members, T'Challa chased one of them down and grabbed its horn, subduing it onto the ground as the piece of debris had pinned it down.
 being attacked]]
Continued to battle, T'Challa fought against several of W'Kabi's soldiers until one of the rhinos hit him so hard that flew across the field and landed onto the ground near a rock. As Killmonger, wearing the other Panther Habit, defeated Okoye and three of the Dora Milaje members, he turned his attention to Shuri. Seeing this, T'Challa released his kinetic pulse and began to charge at Killmonger, tackling him, causing both to fall into the Great Mound.
 to turn on the train]]
As they proceeded to fall several stories high, T'Challa began to trade blows with Killmonger in between to get away from each other, resulting into him landing onto the railroad of the Wakandan Maglev Train. On the platform, T'Challa dodged an incoming attack by Killmonger and fought on the tracks of one of the vibranium transport trains. T'Challa asked Shuri to activate the train, knowing it would activate the Sonic Stabilizers, rendering his, and Killmonger's suits useless from time-to-time.
 's reign]]
After the railroad was activated, T'Challa was able swiftly to avoid the train while Killmonger began to attack him outright. As the two escaped from the railroad, T'Challa noticed that his suit was tearing and repairing, along with Killmonger's as well. As Killmonger began to denounce his reign, T'Challa countered that he just wanted Wakanda to be just like the people he hates by dividing and conquering a foreign land.
 ]]
When Killmonger tried to rebuttal, T'Challa responded that he will become just like his oppressors and will destroy the world, Wakanda included. As Killmonger cried out that the world took everything away from him, he also threatened to track down anyone who would even think about being loyal to T'Challa and kill them just like he had Zuri. Knowing that his cousin will never stop murdering the ones he loved, T'Challa screamed at Killmonger and began to charge at him, continuing to fight each other.
 ]]
As the fight started to become more frantic, T'Challa fought against Killmonger, gaining the upper hand by throwing him off the railroad and ended hurting him, while trying to stay at bay. Once Killmonger grabbed a short spear, T'Challa avoided his strikes once the duel continued. T'Challa was pushed back, trying to switch the blade toward him, only to move over to his side. When the train moved along, T'Challa punched the knife away and in the air, T'Challa rolled over, catching the spear, and fatally stabbed Killmonger in the heart.
 ]]
Knowing the fight was over, T'Challa listened to Killmonger's memories about his father, and how he told him that Wakanda was the most beautiful place in the world. After this, T'Challa helped Killmonger go on top of the mine reached the cliff to watch the sunset. While there, T'Challa offered to heal Killmonger, but Killmonger refused, saying that he would rather die than being imprisoned, pulling the spear out of his body, bleeding to death. 

#### Giving the World Resources

 ]]
 
Periodically after reclaiming Wakanda, T'Challa buried Erik Killmonger, as the rest of the Dora Milaje and the Border Tribe settled down after their battle was over, stopping the weapons that were meant to be send out into the world. T'Challa reassigned himself as the King of Wakanda, going over to reclaim his throne inside the Tribal Council.
 meet together in the city]]
As Wakanda was finally prospering, T'Challa went over to the streets of Birnin Zana to meet up with Nakia at a stairwell, deciding to talk about their recent actions. After greeting the locals that were walking up the stairs, T'Challa proceeded to thank Nakia for her actions by saving him and his family. Nakia then responded that the people's nation was her duty to fight for what she loved before stumbling her words toward T'Challa.
 to stay with him]]
Once she continued on, T'Challa interrupted Nakia's sentence by kissing her and after stopping he tries to rationalize by almost dying. After making a remark, T'Challa was then kissed by Nakia and once it was done, he asked Nakia to stay, knowing a way to still fulfill her calling, pleading for her stay in the city. Deciding to stay there, T'Challa was tenderly kissed by Nakia again, settling their relationship.
 visit Oakland together]]
Later on, T'Challa and Shuri went over to Oakland in California and looked at the old apartment building of his uncle. Shuri would remark on what T'Challa said by going to California for the first time, she thought of or . Asked why by Shuri they were there in the first place, T'Challa told Shuri this where their father killed N'Jobu, informing her that it will not be tearing down, which to her relief while reading the sign.
 's property]]
Breaking the news to her, T'Challa told Shuri that he bought the old apartment building and a couple of other landmarks, saying that it will be Wakanda's first Wakandan International Outreach Centre. T'Challa also announced the news that Shuri will be ahead of the science and information exchange, having her in disbelief. Activating a new Royal Talon Fighter up from the sky as a gift, T'Challa made it nontransparent in the basketball for Shuri to ride.
 
As the children noticed the ship, gawking at the sight of it and planned to sell the parts of it, until Shuri told the kids that it was hers and when asked of where she came from, she told them that she was from Wakanda, much to their confusion. As T'Challa leaned over the fence, he was asked by one boy with braids on his hair if the ship on the court was his or not and later realizing that he is likely the owner of the jet, asked who he was, smiling at him. 

#### Aiding Bucky Barnes

 ]]
 
T'Challa then returned home to Wakanda, bringing with him Steve Rogers and Bucky Barnes. Offering the latter asylum, he informed the pair that the best chance of having the Winter Soldier Programming removed was for Barnes to return to cryo-sleep stasis, which Barnes agreed to do.
 ]]	
After Shuri explained how she intended to remove the Hydra programming, Barnes willingly let himself freeze in a cryo-chamber until the Wakandan Design Group scientists could find a way to cure him of Hydra's brainwashing. Rogers warned T'Challa that forces of opposition would come and declare war on Wakanda for allowing Barnes to take refuge, to which T'Challa replied that they could try as the two overlooked the landscape of the kingdom's mountains. 

#### Joining the United Nations

 in Vienna]]
 
Heading over to United Nations, T'Challa walked into over to the Vienna International Centre with Okoye Nakia, and Ayo beside him as he entered. When Everett Ross arrived to meet up, T'Challa was greeted by him before being asked for a private conversation, to which T'Challa asked to give them space. T'Challa listened to Ross' recommendation that he should not reveal their wealth and power to the United Nations, fearing the response could be dangerous.
 
T'Challa, however, insisted to Ross that he would no longer rule out of fear like his father had done, believing they should lead by example. While Ross heard this, T'Challa's decision was accepted and went off with his people to let him make his speech. Before leaving, however, T'Challa was wished good luck in , however, he mispronounced some words which caused Okoye and Ayo to laugh alongside Nakia while Ross insisted that he practiced his phrase, T'Challa thanked him in Xhosa. 
 ]]
Entering the room with photographers and cameramen on him, T'Challa then gave his speech in which he established full relations between Wakanda and the rest of the world, promising to share their vibranium and technology. Continuing his speech, T'Challa spoke about letting Wakanda to no longer watch from the shadows and the people will work to be an example of how Human beings on Earth should treat each other, with no illusions of division threaten our very existence.
 
Focusing on every listener, T'Challa told the public that a connection between other countries is now more in need than ever. When one of the senators questioned what a small country in Africa with no resources could do, he gave a speech that officially ending Wakanda's isolation and proclaiming all of Earth as one tribe, much to the utter amazement of the rest of the world who were watching. 

#### Becoming a Father

T'Challa and Nakia conceived a son whom they named after T'Challa himself, with the two of them agreeing to keep his existence a secret to take away the pressures of the throne and royalty, with Nakia raising him in Haiti, while T'Challa stayed on Wakanda to continue his duties as king. 

### Infinity War

#### Recruiting Bucky Barnes

 to fight]]
 
Following the attacks by the Black Order in New York City and Scotland, the remaining Avengers on Earth traveled to Wakanda and appealed to T'Challa for help to extract the Mind Stone from Vision's head before Thanos' expected invasion of Earth.
 ]]
Agreeing to help, T'Challa ordered his followers to equip Bucky Barnes with a new prosthetic arm. Alongside with Barnes, Okoye told T'Challa that the Royal Guard and the Dora Milaje have been alerted, including the Border Tribe and the Jabari Tribe as well. T'Challa told Okoye that despite Barnes being tired of war, he has rested long enough. T'Challa visited Barnes and gave him a new prosthetic arm. Noticing the arm, Barnes asked him where the fight was, and T'Challa responded that it was on its way. 

#### Preparation for Battle

 ' arrival]]
 
Shortly after T'Challa recruited Bucky Barnes, he waited for the Avengers' arrival in their Quinjet. Walking toward the helipad, T'Challa was asked by Okoye that while opening to the rest the world she did not expect a war incoming, to which he responded with a question with what she had in mind, talking about the and .
 in Wakanda]]
Once the Avengers arrived in Wakanda, T'Challa was reunited with Steve Rogers, being thanked for his help securing Vision. T'Challa was also introduced to Bruce Banner, who was tricked by James Rhodes to bow to him, telling him that his people do not do that sort of thing. Walking over toward the city, T'Challa questioned how big of an assault could his army expect, Banner responded that it was going to be quite of a big assault, T'Challa told the Avengers that they would have the Wakandan Royal Guard, the Border Tribe, the Dora Milaje, and Barnes by their side.
 
As he led the Avengers into the Citadel, T'Challa tasked Shuri with extracting the Mind Stone from Vision's forehead. Once Shuri noticed there were more than two trillion neurons here, T'Challa informed by her that it would take time to disassemble each part. Alerted by Okoye's Kimoyo bead, T'Challa rallied the Wakandans in order to fight the members of the Black Order, knowing that they would come to Wakanda for the Stone. 

#### Battle of Wakanda

 
 
Onto the Wakandan battlefield, T'Challa rode along the carriers that were hovering over the ground with Wakandan soldiers and Natasha Romanoff, Rogers, and Barnes on board; while War Machine and Falcon kept the pace overhead, and Banner wores the Hulkbuster armor. As the carrier pilots swerved to stop and the Dora Milaje had joined the ranks, T'Challa dropped off from his ride and met M'Baku to thank him for his cooperation.
 ]]
Walking toward the edge of the barrier, T'Challa, Rogers, and Romanoff stood between where Proxima Midnight and Cull Obsidian were in front of them. As Midnight drew her sword, T'Challa and his allies were threatened by her, responding to her that Thanos would have nothing but dust and blood on his hands, only for her to send multiple Outriders out from their Outrider Dropships. T'Challa went back to lead the Wakandans in the war cry, telling them to hold fast as the Outriders bound toward the barrier as Midnight signaled to attack.
 
Once the enemies quickly appeared, T'Challa signaled to shoot them in mass, though most of them could not penetrate Wakanda's protective force field. To prevent them from flanking their position and reaching Vision, T'Challa ordered the shield wall lowered to funnel the enemies towards them and began to attack them. As the Outriders were coming toward them, T'Challa and Rogers rapidly ran ahead due to their enhancements and leaped into battle.
 during battle]]
Over his intercom, T'Challa told Shuri on how much time she had left for her to fix Vision, responding that she barely begun, asking her to pick up the pace. As the battle continued on, a large beam of light landed in the middle of the field, revealing Thor, Groot and Rocket. T'Challa paused in shock and surprise. Upon witnessing Obsidian killing several Wakandans, T'Challa leaped onto him and used all his collected kinetic energy to punch him.
 
When the disturbance reached the edge of the trees, a vast number of Threshers began to shred everything in their path, prompting T'Challa to command his army to fall back from them. Though many people died, T'Challa and his Wakandan army fought valiantly and killed many of Thanos' forces with Thor having arrived to help them turn the tide of the battle. 

#### Thanos' Victory

 ]]
 
As T'Challa and the remaining Avengers had gathered near a forest, they discovered a disturbance coming towards them. As the group became silent enough, Thanos teleported himself to Earth and arrived in Wakanda to personally retrieve the Mind Stone. Once Thanos stood and observed, Captain America ordered the group to stay sharp and attack him.
 ]]
As Thanos' dominion over the fabrics of reality given to him by the nearly completed Infinity Gauntlet, T'Challa attempted to attack him with the use of his kinetic energy pulse to implode onto his opponent. However, with little effect, the Mad Titan easily grabbed T'Challa by the shoulder with his Infinity Gauntlet hand and punched him with so much force that all the energies in his Panther Habit were expelled, knocking him out instantly.
 
Although they bought enough time for Wanda Maximoff to destroy the Mind Stone, Thanos used the Time Stone to undo her actions and retrieved the stone from Vision, destroying him. With a snap of his fingers, Thanos' plan came to fruition as half of all sentient life across the whole universe began to disintegrate into dust. T'Challa held out his hand to bring Okoye up, only for him to disintegrate in front of her horrified eyes. 

#### Battle of Earth

 ]]
 
Five years later, as a result of Blip, T'Challa was restored to life. Shortly after, he, along with his restored sister and the Wakandan armies, were recruited by the Masters of the Mystic Arts to join the battle against an alternate Thanos and his army. He was reunited with Okoye, and she and his sister walked alongside him through an Inter-Dimensional Portal to the destroyed Avengers Compound in New York.
 into battle]]
He shared a glance with a battle weary Steve Rogers, who showed his relief at their arrival. T'Challa then rallied his armies in battle as they emerged through the portal. When all their allies had emerged from portals, Rogers rallied them to attack and T'Challa joined the leading charge on the aliens. During the battle, Rogers ordered the Nano Gauntlet be brought to the Quantum Tunnel within Luis' van.
 ]]
T'Challa located the Gauntlet and used his kinetic energy pulse to rescue Clint Barton from a horde of Outriders. He then acknowledged Barton, calling him by his first name, something he learned during the airport clash and told him to give him the Gauntlet. T'Challa then tried to reach the van but was knocked down by Thanos' Double-Edged Sword. T'Challa was then charged by Thanos but was saved by Wanda Maximoff. T'Challa then made another attempt to secure the Gauntlet only to be ensnared by Ebony Maw's telekinesis, negating his suit's ability to channel kinetic energy. As Maw nearly claimed the Gauntlet, T'Challa threw it to Spider-Man, who swung past him.
 ]]
The battle ended when Tony Stark used the Infinity Stones to wipe out Thanos and his army, though at the cost of his own life. T'Challa stood next to Peter Quill and watched as the aliens disintegrated. As T'Challa had been wounded during the battle, he spilled his blood on the battlefield, which was collected by Nick Fury's secret Skrull unit and placed into a vial known as the Harvest alongside other enhanced DNA samples. The Harvest vial was later administered by Super-Skrulls Gravik and G'iah, granting them access to T'Challa's enhanced abilities. 
 's funeral]]
Following the battle, T'Challa returned home and reunited with his mother. He resumed his duties as King and one night, watched with his sister and mother from the Citadel as celebrations went on in Birnin Zana at their loved ones' return. A week later, he, his sister, and Okoye went back to New York and attended Stark's funeral at his house. Back in Wakanda, T'Challa resumed his duties as King, he also continued to operate as Black Panther. He trained with the Dora Milaje while Assata and Ayo watched. 

### Passing

#### Incurable Disease

In 2024, T'Challa suffered an incurable illness. He went to Haiti and informed Nakia so she and their son could be prepared for his death. He also told her to stay there and not attend his funeral. When he returned to Wakanda, Shuri did everything she could to recreate the Heart-Shaped Herb and its healing properties after they were burned by Erik Killmonger, but could not complete the project in time, resulting in his death. 

### Legacy

#### Aggression of Other World Powers

 
Due to the unexpected death of King T'Challa, some countries saw the loss of the Wakanda's protector as the country being weak. This resulted in attempts to steal vibranium by force, although Queen Ramonda and the Dora Milaje were able to thwart them. 

#### Title of Black Panther

A year after T'Challa's passing, Namor and the Talokanil kidnapped Shuri and Riri Williams, and revealed a plan to wage war on the surface world with the help of Wakanda. However, when Wakanda denied, and Nakia killed one of the Talokanil in order to help Shuri and Williams escape, Namor attacked Wakanda resulting in the death of Queen Ramonda. Shuri eventually went on to recreate the heart-shaped herb and become the next Black Panther to enact revenge on Namor for killing her mother; however, she spared his life, and continued T'Challa's legacy of nobility and the Black Panther. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
*Heart-Shaped Herb Enhancement: After having consumed the Heart-Shaped Herb, T'Challa's physical attributes have been significantly enhanced to levels comparable to a super soldier. The herb granted him enhanced strength, durability, speed, agility, stamina, reflexes and healing. Unlike the Super Soldier Serum, the effects could be removed by drinking a serum that negates the powers of the herbs for ritualistic combat for a fair fight to become King of Wakanda.
**Enhanced Strength: The Heart-Shaped Herb gave T'Challa enhanced strength, strong enough to shift the weight of a 2.14-ton car with one hand Internet Movie Cars Database: Black Panther during the Arrest of Ulysses Klaue. His enhanced strength allowed him to physically overpower humans as well as Outriders. He could send opponents flying through the air from his strikes during combat; while rescuing Nakia from traffickers in the Sambisa Forest, T'Challa kicked one of the criminals hard enough to send them flying several meters and into a car while seriously denting its door, and threw a car door hard enough to send a trafficker rotate mid-air. While T'Challa's strength is rivaled by enhanced beings like Captain America, the Winter Soldier and Erik Killmonger, he was able to overpower the Winter Soldier despite the latter's own strength and fighting ability. T'Challa was able to send the Winter Soldier flying through the air with his attacks, and was strong enough to easily push back his bionic arm, something even Rogers failed to do so, while in possession of his Panther Habit. He was also able to battle Captain America on equal grounds, even managed to knock back the super soldier. Furthermore, T'Challa was able to swiftly tackle down a charging rhino and throw a Sonic Spear with enough force to take down a Dragon Flyer. During the Battle of Wakanda, against Thanos' army, T'Challa was able to overpower many Outriders. Even without the Heart-Shaped Herb, T'Challa was in excellent physical condition from his years of training, which allowed him to stagger M'Baku and even knock him down during their duel.
**Enhanced Durability: Even when not wearing his Panther Habit, T'Challa could survive extreme blunt force trauma such as being hit with the Winter Soldier's bionic arm with no visible injuries, and surviving the explosion at the Vienna International Centre despite being right next to the blast's epicenter with only minor injuries. During the Avengers Civil War, T'Challa was able to resist several of Black Widow's Taser Disks whereas a normal human would be knocked out by just one. During his pursuit of Ulysses Klaue, T'Challa was blasted down onto a casino table and exited the building unharmed. Even without the Heart-Shaped Herb, T'Challa was still exceptionally durable. When he was impaled by M'Baku using his knobkerrie, T'Challa was still able to beat M'Baku despite the injury. When beaten by Erik Killmonger later, T'Challa survived a fall off of a mountain into a river.
**Enhanced Speed: running]] T'Challa could run and move at great speeds. He proved to be faster than Captain America. He could run as fast as a zebra and outrun a white rhinoceros. He was able to catch up to and outrun speeding vehicles and outpace Captain America and the Winter Soldier respectively, eventually overtaking the Winter Soldier's motorcycle by using the vehicle Captain America hijacked as a springboard. T'Challa had proven to be slightly faster than Captain America, as shown during the Battle of Wakanda, when he ran at almost superior speeds with him when rushing towards the Outriders. During the Rescue of Nakia, T'Challa was fast enough to attack the traffickers even before they were able to aim their weapons on him. During the escape of Klaue, T'Challa was able to quickly catch up to the accelerating van, but then he was blasted by a grenade launcher fire by Killmonger. Upon seeing Killmonger was about to kill Shuri, T'Challa was able to run from one side of the battlefield to another with extreme speed in a matter of seconds, successfully saving Shuri by tackling him and causing both of them to fall into the Great Mound. He also fast enough to stab Killmonger in the heart with a Vibranium Zulu Short-Spear before the former's nanite suit could reform. In combat, he was fast enough to go toe-to-toe with the fellow enhanced people like Captain America, the Winter Soldier and Erik Killmonger. During Battle of Earth, T'Challa was able to easily outrun all of the Outriders while holding the Nano Gauntlet to prevent them from getting it.
**Enhanced Agility: T'Challa used his flexibility and quick agility to coordinate strong attacks on the enemy while dodging the counterattacks. In addition, he was able to leap great distances with extreme accuracy. He was lunged forward several meters when attempting to shield his father from the explosion in at the Vienna International Centre, and being able to reach the second floor of the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre Building faster than Barnes could walk up a set of stairs. His enhanced agility also allowed him to effortlessly outrun and vault over moving vehicles. He was able to lunge forward several meters by vaulting over a moving vehicle and successfully pounce onto the back of the car which Rogers stole, and later lunge forward several meters by jumping from Rogers' car in an attempt to knock Winter Soldier off his motorcycle, as well as lunging forward several meters by vaulting over a vehicle moving in the opposite direction and successfully pouncing onto the back of Falcon. T'Challa was able to perform aerial wheel kicks while fighting Captain America, leap forward several meters to dodge an explosion and a large burning fire truck being thrown towards him, jump forward several meters trying to get a hold of the Quinjet. During the Rescue of Nakia, T'Challa was able to roll himself forward mid-air for several meters and land on a traffickers' truck with ease. During Manhunt for Ulysses Klaue, he was able to leap over to the top of the balcony with a single bounce, backflip several meters upwards and land onto a moving car controlled by Shuri with ease, and easily lunge and latch from one car to another while they were traveling at high speeds and taking out Klaue's henchmen. After being propelled into the air by a kinetic pulse, T'Challa was able to contort his body mid-air and land on the roof of a vehicle while it was traveling at high speed without any difficulty. When the car was blown away by Klaue's sonic cannon, T'Challa was able to jump and leap from that car to a height of several stories in a single bound, landing onto the ceiling wall of a neon sign and then successfully leaping onto the side the van with ease. T'Challa was also able to jump over a height of several meters of the Border Tribe's defense shields. During the Battle of Wakanda, T'Challa was able to leap forward several meters alongside with Captain America to attack the Outriders, leap forward several meters to attack Cull Obsidian and successfully knock him down, and later Thanos, though he was able to catch him mid-air and knock T'Challa to the ground. During the Battle of Earth, he was able to leap several meters upward in attempt to secure the Nano Gauntlet but only to be ensnared by Ebony Maw's telekinesis.
**Enhanced Stamina: T'Challa could exert great energy for several hours without showing any sign of fatigue, allowing him to fight for long periods of time. He was able to intensely pursue the Winter Soldier on foot without any sign of fatigue, and fight against fellow super soldiers like Captain America, the Winter Soldier, and Erik Killmonger for an extended period of time without tiring, ultimately defeating the latter. During all those battles T'Challa have fought include Avengers Civil War, Battle of Mount Bashenga, Battle of Wakanda and Battle of Earth, he was shown without any noticeable sign of fatigue.
**Enhanced Reflexes: 's arrows]] Another power that was enhanced by the Heart-Shaped Herb is reflexes. This allowed him to effectively process the world at an accelerated rate. His reflexes were sharp and fast enough to dodge an explosion and a large burning fire truck being thrown towards him, evade a kick from enlarged Ant-Man, dodge many of Hawkeye's arrows and even manage to catch them out of the air with his bare hands, stop Helmut Zemo from committing suicide using a gun at point-blank range, dodge gunfire from point-blank range by human traffickers, evade a blast from Ulysses Klaue's prosthetic arm, cover a grenade using his body the moment he saw it, catch a spear in mid-air, easily dodge an aircraft which was crashing towards him, dodge an attack by a charging rhino with ease, and even swiftly dodge a train moving towards him at high speed. His reflexes also allowed him to respond quickly to fast-paced combat, as he was able to quickly dodge or block the attacks from the likes of Captain America, the Winter Soldier, Hawkeye and Erik Killmonger.
**Regenerative Healing Factor: T'Challa's fast healing capabilities enabled an extraordinarily efficient recovery. After allowing the powers of the herb to be stripped away, T'Challa suffered blunt force, cuts, and bruises due to fighting for the Black Panther monarchy. Afterward, having been restored the powers of the herb, T'Challa recovered from many of the damages he endured and was healed in a matter of hours. This even enabled him to fully recover from being on the brink of death in mere hours.
 
*Panther Habit Capabilities: The ceremonial armor of the Black Panther grants its wearer a series of powers due to its Vibranium composition and the technology integrated in it.
**Superhuman Durability: While wearing the habit, T'Challa's durability was increased to superhuman levels thanks to its vibranium composition, making him nigh-invulnerable, which allowed him to withstand bullets and explosions while being completely unfazed. During the Battle of Mount Bashenga, T'Challa was able to withstand being hit by members of Border Tribe using their Vibranium Mambele, struck by a charging rhino, an immense fall into the Great Mound after he tackled Killmonger off of Shuri, Killmonger's kinetic energy pulses, even being hit by a Wakandan train while battling Killmonger but manage to quickly got back up, all without any injuries. During Battle of Wakanda, T'Challa even able to withstand a strong punch to the head by Thanos, all without showing any sign of injuries.
**Claw Retraction: Within Black Panther's Panther Habit, T'Challa had retractable claws that he used against enemies. He could also use them to grab walls. When chasing Bucky Barnes he used the claws the safely glide down the wall of the building. He also used these claws many times to slash the enemy whether it was Erik Killmonger, Outriders, or others.
**Kinetic Energy Absorption: The habit can store kinetic energy, which T'Challa could then release in a pulse of purple energy. Using the kinetic energy absorbed from the bullets being fired at him, T'Challa was able to disable a car with an energy pulse expelled by the habit, using the propelling force to launch himself further into his pursuit. During the Battle of Mount Bashenga when he was overwhelmed by Border Tribe warriors, the habit gained an increasing amount of energy from their attacks that T'Challa was able to release as a much more powerful and devastating pulse, strong enough to send multiple enemies flying. During the Battle of Wakanda and Battle of Earth T'Challa used the kinetic energy to shoot down more soldiers of Thanos' army. The habit can even generate pulses strong enough to knock back Cull Obsidian, the largest and strongest member of the Black Order. The kinetic energy stored within the habit can also be used to add more force behind T'Challa's blows, allowing him to increase the strength of his punches and kicks. Black Panther - Marvel.com 

### Abilities

 
 
*Master Martial Artist: ]] T'Challa was an extremely skilled and formidable hand-to-hand combatant and martial artist, having trained extensively from childhood to one day take up the mantle of the Black Panther, making him one of the most powerful and best fighters on the planet. His unique Wakandan fighting style was very acrobatic and heavily attack-oriented, primarily utilizing powerful sweeping kicks, aerial takedowns, and slashing attacks with hooked and clawed fists, reminiscent of the manner in which a panther strikes. His attacks were fluid and swift, allowing him to transition from attack to defense rapidly. Black Panther's techniques combined African oriented martial arts and other styles, including Zulu stick-fighting, tiger-style kung fu, wushu, Dambe, Laamb, capoeira, Taekwondo, muay Thai, shurikenjutsu and intonjutsu. T'Challa had displayed the sufficient level of skill that in his fight with the Winter Soldier after the latter had swiftly beaten Tony Stark, Sharon Carter, and Black Widow, he was able to fight on par with Barnes and even pressuring him, forcing him to flee eventually. While wearing his suit, T'Challa was skilled enough to fairly quickly overpower and knock out Hawkeye who was using his staff while T'Challa was unarmed, best and almost kill the Winter Soldier, and even fight on par with Captain America himself, briefly knocking him down. He was also able to contend with Erik Killmonger while wearing his own Panther Habit and boosted by the Heart-Shaped Herb, and eventually defeat him, although not without extreme effort. Even without the herb's power, T'Challa's skill and rigorous training in martial arts made him highly formidable and he was also accomplished with the use of Wakandan weapons, as displayed when he fought for the Black Panther monarchy. He was able to best M'Baku, the leader of the Jabari Tribe, and go up against Killmonger, initially having the upper hand, only losing due to the fact that he was hampered by his mercy and indecision to kill his cousin. T'Challa also managed to defeat many members of the Border Tribe during the Battle of Mount Bashenga, bested and killed many of the Outriders during the Battle of Wakanda, and bested and killed many members of the Chitauri and Outriders during the Battle of Earth.
*Knife Mastery: with his dagger]] T'Challa was a master at using a knife. He was able to use a dagger during the ceremonial duel for the monarch against M'Baku and later Erik Killmonger. He was able to go up against Killmonger in their first duel and initially had the upper hand against the latter, managing to knock his opponent off of his feet and scar his cheek with the dagger's blade.
 
*Spear Mastery: T'Challa could use a spear very effectively. He often threw the spear as a strategy to attack. He threw a Sonic Spear to destroy a Dragon Flyer during the Battle of Mount Bashenga. During the Battle of Mount Bashenga, T'Challa was able to disarm Killmonger and steal his Wakandan Short-Spear and used it against him and later even manage to kill him by stabbing it into his heart.
*Master Marksman: In addition to throwing a spear with extreme accuracy, he could hit the target with other objects as well. During the Rescue of Nakia, he was even able to throw five EMP Beads simultaneously while free falling from a considerable height with perfect accuracy, successfully hitting and then attached onto the hood of all five vehicles respectively used by the traffickers.
*Master Acrobat: ]] T'Challa was an extremely skilled gymnast, acrobat and aerialist, being able to fluidly dodge attacks from multiple directions using coordinated flips, twists, and sharp turns without losing balance. This allowed him to quickly catch up to and cut off the Winter Soldier mere seconds after being knocked down, and the latter has gone up several flights of stairs. Combined with his immensely enhanced agility, T'Challa had proven to be extremely agile and could perform highly acrobatic feats in combat, as he was shown in his fights against Winter Soldier, Captain America, Hawkeye, M'Baku, Erik Killmonger and so on. He also used these skills to fight against hordes of enemies at once, namely the traffickers, Klaue's henchmen, members of Border Tribe, Outriders, Chitauri and Sakaarans. He also utilized these talents for evasive purposes, as he was able to dodge many arrows fired by Hawkeye using acrobatic moves.
 
*Genius-Level Intellect: T'Challa had a very high intellectual mind that was on par with some of the greatest scientific pioneers in human history, as seen by him being smart enough to have designed his own Panther Habit using his country's greatest resource with his own two hands.
 
*Master Tactician: ]] T'Challa had great knowledge of tactics and leadership, which he used to great effect as both the King of Wakanda and the Black Panther. Due to his desire for revenge on the Winter Soldier, T'Challa planned an attack on Barnes in the short time when he was on the run. When battling Killmonger, he was able to strategically beat him by using his knowledge of the flaws in the vibranium suit, which he had Shuri utilized the Wakandan Maglev Train's sonic stabilizers to disrupt the vibranium technology in the habits to get the edge on his opponent in their rematch, ultimately defeating him and even impressing him. During the Battle of Wakanda, he was able to use his battle strategies to lead a Wakandan army and the Avengers against Thanos' Outriders.
*Master Spy: T'Challa was a master of stealth. He shown to be able to track Captain America, Winter Soldier, and Iron Man without them noticing at the Hydra Siberian Facility, despite Captain America's enhanced senses and Iron Man's advanced alert systems. He was also shown to use his stealth to blend in the trees at Sambisa Forest to hide from the traffickers while rescuing Nakia.
*Pilot: T'Challa was a skilled pilot. He was able to follow Iron Man from the Raft to Siberia in his jet without being spotted.
*Multilingualism: T'Challa was fluent in his native , as well as English; albeit with a thick Wakandan accent. T'Challa also understood and could possibly speak as he understood Nakia's conversation in Korean with Sophia, as well as , seen when he understood what M'Baku said to him before the Battle of Wakanda.

## Equipment

### Panther Habit

 
*Panther Habit: in Busan]] As Black Panther, T'Challa donned a uniquely crafted vibranium-weave combat suit that, like Captain America's Shield, is lightweight, nigh-indestructible, and renders him immune to most physical damages, especially from collisions and conventional firearms, though the habit was notably susceptible to the electrical charges of Black Widow's Bite and vibranium weaponry. After his return to Wakanda, T'Challa received an updated version of the habit designed by Shuri to be more advanced than his traditional Habit, capable of absorbing and manipulating energy for various purposes. The updated version also facilitates extreme ease of storage, due to being constructed from vibranium nanites embedded in his necklace.
**Vibranium Claws: Two sets of retractable and extendable vibranium claws embedded in the fingers of the gloves like nails. The suit can also deploy claws from its knuckles. They serve as both utility and the primary combat weapon of T'Challa during combat. The claws are exceptionally strong and razor sharp. The claws are capable of damaging other items made of vibranium such as Captain America's Shield during his fight with Captain America.
**Sneakers: The Panther Habit also equipped with sound-absorbent shoes, completely nullifying any noise T'Challa would make when walking.

### Weapons

 
*Vibranium Iklwa Dagger: T'Challa used a cut-down Wakandan spear during the ceremonial duel for the monarch against M'Baku and later Erik Killmonger, notably clipping the latter's cheek with the dagger's blade.
*Nguni Shield: T'Challa used a ceremonial shield mounted over a vibranium pole during the ceremonial duel for the monarch against M'Baku and later Erik Killmonger.
*Sonic Spear: During the Battle of Mount Bashenga, T'Challa used a Sonic Spear to destroy a Dragon Flyer.
*Wakandan Short-spear: During the Battle of Mount Bashenga, T'Challa stole Killmonger's spear and stabbed him in the heart to kill him.

### Other Equipment

 's ring]]
*Wakandan Royal Ring: The royal ring worn by T'Challa is one of a set originally worn by Azzuri, passed down to T'Chaka and N'Jobu, and later their sons. T'Challa obtained the ring following T'Chaka's death in Vienna.
*Kimoyo Beads: Vibranium technology used by T'Challa to communicate and control any system they're interfaced with. T'Challa was able to stabilize the condition of Everett Ross by placing one of the beads into a bullet wound in his back. When needed, they are able to be deactivated, allowing T'Challa and Nakia to speak undisturbed.
**EMP Beads: T'Challa used EMP Kimoyo beads to disable a human-trafficking convoy's vehicles in the Sambisa Forest during the Rescue of Nakia.
 ]]
*Implant: T'Challa possessed an implant behind his right ear, which allowed him to mentally communicate with Kimoyo beads as well as control his second Panther Habit, using it to manifest the suit or remove his helmet mentally.
*Wakandan Communicator: T'Challa was given a small communication device prior to his departure for Busan to capture Ulysses Klaue. The device is small enough to be placed behind the ear for concealment and can be placed on others for surveillance purposes, such as when T'Challa placed one on Everett Ross to listen in on Ross' interrogation of Klaue.

### Vehicles

*Jet: T'Challa utilized an advanced personal jet to follow Iron Man from the Raft to Siberia in his pursuit of the Winter Soldier. The jet was able to follow Stark undetected and could facilitate the transportation of Helmut Zemo after his capture.
*Royal Talon Fighter: T'Challa had utilized a Royal Talon Fighter for transportation.

## Facilities

 
*Citadel: The Citadel is the palace of the Golden Tribe and the rulers of Wakanda. They notably held Tribal Council meetings in the Citadel's throne room. T'Challa held a Tribal Council meeting during which Okoye announced that they had discovered Ulysses Klaue had resurfaced, Erik Killmonger had come to claim the throne of Wakanda and challenged T'Challa in the throne room, and T'Challa and his family to reclaim their place in the Citadel once after he survived his fight against Killmonger.
*Wakanda Medical Center: After Everett Ross was shot and wounded by Erik Killmonger, T'Challa takes him to the Wadanda's most advanced medical centers in the country to heal his wounds.
*Shuri's Lab: T'Challa regularly visited the lab where his sister, Shuri, works at, and she gives him the latest upgraded Panther Habit.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Golden Tribe
**Bashenga † - Paternal Ancestor
**Paternal Ancestor Hannah Beachler on Twitter - November 14, 2022 †
**Andile † - Paternal Great Great Great Great-Grandfather Black Panther Wakanda Forever script 
**Bazwale † - Paternal Great Great Great-Grandfather
**Yima † - Paternal Great Great-Grandfather
**Kabba † - Paternal Great-Grandfather
**Azzuri † - Paternal Grandfather
**T'Chaka † - Father and Predecessor
**Ramonda † - Mother
**N'Jobu † - Paternal Uncle
**Shuri - Sister and Successor
**N'Jadaka/Erik Killmonger † - Paternal Cousin, Attempted Killer, and Victim
**T'Challa II - Son
*Lumumba - Maternal Grandmother
*Paternal Aunt-by-Marriage †

### Allies

*Zuri † - Former Mentor and Friend
*Dora Milaje - Subordinates
**Okoye - Friend
**Ayo
**Xoliswa †
**Nomble
**Yama
*War Dogs
**Nakia - Love Interest
*Wakandan Royal Guard - Subordinates and Temporary Enemies
*Border Tribe - Temporary Enemies
*Wakandan Design Group
**S'Yan
*Attaché
*Avengers
**Steve Rogers/Captain America - Former Enemy and Friend
**Tony Stark/Iron Man †
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow † - Temporary Enemy
**Sam Wilson/Falcon - Former Enemy
**James Rhodes/War Machine
**Peter Parker/Spider-Man
**Vision †
**Scott Lang/Ant-Man - Former Enemy
**Wanda Maximoff † - Former Enemy and Savior
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye - Former Enemy
**Bruce Banner/Hulk - Resurrector
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel
*CIA
**Everett Ross - Friend
**Sharon Carter
*Joint Counter Terrorist Centre - Temporary Enemies
*Thaddeus Ross
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier - Former Attempted Victim and Friend
*Tribal Council
**M'Kathu
**Merchant Tribe Elder
**River Tribe Elder
**Zawavari
*M20 - Temporary Enemy
*Sophia 
*Jabari Tribe
**M'Baku - Temporary Enemy and Friend
*Guardians of the Galaxy
**Peter Quill/Star-Lord
**Thor
**Rocket
**Groot
**Drax the Destroyer
**Mantis
**Nebula
*Masters of the Mystic Arts
**Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange
**Wong
*Brunnhilde/Valkyrie
*Warsong
*Korg
*Miek
*Einherjar
*Ravagers
**Kraglin Obfonteri
*Howard the Duck
*Hope van Dyne/Wasp
*Pepper Potts/Rescue
*Gamora
*Assata
 

### Enemies

*Douglas Scott
*Zanda † - Victim
*GSG 9 - Situational Enemies
*Helmut Zemo/Baron Zemo
* 
*Ulysses Klaue † - Attempted Killer and Attempted Victim
*Dave
*Linda †
*Limbani †
*W'Kabi - Former Friend and Former Advisor
*Black Order
**Cull Obsidian †
**Proxima Midnight †
*Outriders
*Thanos † - Killer
*Thanos †
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw †
**Cull Obsidian †
**Proxima Midnight †
**Corvus Glaive †
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
**Chitauri Gorillas
*Sakaarans
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearance for T'Challa
|-
|
 (mentioned) 
* 
* 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (footage) 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (photo) 
* (footage & mentioned) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
* 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
* (files) 
* 
* (depiction & mentioned) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* (depiction) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (depiction) 
* (photo) 
* (voice) 

In an indefinite temporality:
* (footage) 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* 
* 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (footage) 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (photo) 
* (footage & mentioned) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
** 
* 
** 
** 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
* (files) 
* 
* (depiction & mentioned) 
* (photo) 
* (mentioned) 
** (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* (depiction) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (depiction) 
* (photo) 
* (footage) 
* (mentioned) 
* (voice) 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Black Panther was a member of the Avengers and the Illuminati, a group made of the smartest and most powerful characters in the Marvel Universe (with him being the eighth smartest man in the world) including Black Bolt, Tony Stark, Bruce Banner, Medusa, Hank Pym, and Stephen Strange. In Black Panther Vol 7 #3, it is revealed that "T'Challa" translates to "he who put the knife where it belonged." He also got married to Ororo Munroe/Storm.
**The MCU later offered a different translation of the name "T'Challa" with the birth of his son, T'Challa II; who bears his name. While living in Haiti, the junior T'Challa was raised under the name "Toussaint," said to the French Haitian translation of his Wakandan name. Thus; T'Challa's name indirectly translates to "All Saints."

## Behind the Scenes

*Black Panther was the first of the Marvel characters whose movie rights reverted to Marvel, having been previously owned by , , and 20th Century Fox. Marvel Studios got the rights back in 2005.
**The character almost had a film in the 90's starring Wesley Snipes.
**The character would have been in the third or fourth Fantastic Four film directed by , and was considered to be played by Djimon Hounsou.
*The late Michael Kenneth Williams expressed interest in portraying Black Panther before Chadwick Boseman was cast. One Of Hollywood's Best Actors Is Campaigning To Play Black Panther 
* , , , Anthony Mackie, Djimon Hounsou, Chiwetel Ejiofor and Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje were also considered to play Black Panther. Mackie, Hounsou, Ejiofor and Agbaje would go on to play Falcon, Korath, Baron Mordo and Kurse respectively.
*According to Kevin Feige, the Black Panther was included in Captain America: Civil War as a third party, someone with a different point of view from both Captain America and Iron Man.
*Jason Chu, Gui DaSilva-Greene, Aaron Toney, Daniel Graham, Nico Woulard, Kofi Yiadom, Anis Cheurfa, Troy Butler and Khalil' La'Marr Pickett were stunt doubles for Chadwick Boseman in the role of Black Panther.
*Qualen Bradley was a stand-in for Chadwick Boseman in the role of Black Panther.
*Black Panther, Black Widow, and Spider-Man are the only characters in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to receive a solo movie following their debut.

## References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

es:T'Challa
fr:Black Panther
pl:Czarna Pantera
pt-br:T'Challa
ru:Т'Чалла

Category:Characters
Category:Captain America: Civil War Characters
Category:Black Panther (film) Characters
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Video Game Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Males
Category:Black Hair
Category:Brown Eyes
Category:Royalty
Category:Black Panthers
Category:Tribal Leaders
Category:Politicians
Category:Criminals
Category:Golden Tribe Members
Category:Tribal Council Leaders
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Enhanced Individuals
Category:Heart-Shaped Herb Users
Category:High Body Count
Category:Resurrected Characters
Category:Deceased Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Thanos