|alias = 
|nicknames = Harbinger of Chaos 
|media = Glamour 
|undercover = Wanda Maximoff }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = (formerly) 
|gender = Female
|DOB = Early 1989 
|DOD = 
*May 2018 (resurrected in October 2023) 
*November 2024 
|snapped = Yes 
|affiliation = (formerly) (formerly) 
|movie = Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness }}
|tv series = WandaVision (9 episodes) }}
|web series = }}
|docuseries = Legends *Wanda Maximoff *The Avengers Initiative *Scarlet Witch
|comic = Avengers: Endgame Prelude }}
|book = }}
|actor = Elizabeth Olsen Michaela Russell (young) 
|status = Deceased }}
 
Wanda Maximoff was a native of Sokovia who grew up with her fraternal twin brother, Pietro. Born with the latent mythical ability to harness chaos magic, she developed a hatred for Tony Stark and rallied anti-American protests after the Novi Grad Bombings killed her parents. Years later, in an effort to help purge their country of strife, the twins joined Hydra and agreed to undergo experiments with the Scepter under the supervision of Baron Strucker, with the Mind Stone awakening and amplifying Wanda's powers. While her brother developed super-speed, she attained various psionic abilities. When Hydra fell, the twins joined Ultron to get their revenge on Stark, but abandoned him when they discovered his true intentions to eradicate humanity. Wanda and Pietro joined the Avengers during the Battle of Sokovia to stop Ultron, where Pietro was killed during the battle. Following their victory, Wanda was illegally brought to New York by the Avengers to reside at the Avengers Compound in the United States.

In 2016, during the Attack in Lagos, Maximoff tried to contain an explosion caused by Crossbones, who pulled the cord on his own explosive vest, but failed in her mission and inadvertently destroyed a nearby building with the blast, killing many of its occupants, much to her horror. Maximoff felt responsible for what happened, and since she was unsure of her decision about the Sokovia Accords, she ended up under Vision's watch, who made every effort to make her feel better. However, Clint Barton convinced her to run away and join Steve Rogers in his fight against Tony Stark's team. As a result of her actions during the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport and her violation of the Sokovia Accords, Maximoff was briefly imprisoned on the Raft before Rogers freed her alongside her teammates.

Over the next two years, Maximoff reunited and reconciled with Vision, and together the two started living off the grid in Europe, forming a romantic relationship. In 2018, they were ambushed by the Black Order, who sought the Mind Stone, and rejoined the Avengers to seek refuge in Wakanda. Maximoff took part in the city's defense when the Black Order invaded the city, where she was forced to kill Vision to prevent Thanos from completing the Infinity Gauntlet. However, she witnessed Thanos resurrect and kill Vision before initiating the Snap, which claimed Maximoff's life. After the victims of the Snap were resurrected in October 2023, Maximoff was among the many heroes who fought during the Battle of Earth, defeating Thanos and his armies.

Soon after, Maximoff became overwhelmed by immense grief from her recent personal losses, unwittingly unleashing her chaos magic powers to enthrall the citizens of Westview into creating an alternate idyllic paradise of classical sitcom tropes. With a recreated Vision as her husband, Maximoff lived her ideal life, even producing twin sons, Tommy and Billy. Further complicating the crisis was Agatha Harkness, a fellow witch who sought to understand the nature of Maximoff's new reality, and a S.W.O.R.D. operation led by Tyler Hayward who wished to eliminate her. Maximoff, now knowing her own identity as the fabled Scarlet Witch, defeated Harkness and the S.W.O.R.D. agents, and dispelled her reality, erasing her family in the process. As she was now wanted, Maximoff fled into isolation and began studying the Darkhold.

However, during her exile, the power within the Darkhold slowly corrupted her mind, causing her to believe that the only way for her to see her children again was to find them in a different universe. In her quest to steal the powers of multiversal travel from a teenager called America Chavez, Maximoff came at odds with her former friend Doctor Strange and went on a violent rampage to get what she wanted, thus attacking members of the Masters of the Mystic Arts at Kamar-Taj and even killing a group of superpowered individuals from Earth-838 known as the Illuminati. Finally, after realizing that her actions caused her to be rejected by the Tommy and Billy from an alternate universe, Maximoff redeemed herself and sought to set things right. Turning against her own dark destiny, she destroyed every version of the Darkhold within the Multiverse after demolishing the Darkhold Castle atop Mount Wundagore, taking her own life in the process.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### A Love for Sitcoms

 
Wanda Maximoff was born in 1989 to Olek and Iryna Maximoff in Sokovia along with her twin brother, Pietro Maximoff. Unknown to any of them, Maximoff was born with the latent power of Chaos Magic, making her the legendary Scarlet Witch. But her powers were too weak and were doomed only to diminish overtime. Growing up, her family would watch American by-products, such as television series and sitcoms to practice their English. Maximoff became incredibly fond of the sitcoms, in particular, , enjoying and desiring the idyllic lives they depicted. 

#### Novi Grad Bombings

 
 
In March 1999, at the age of ten, during all of the ongoing Novi Grad Bombings in Sokovia, when Olek Maximoff got home, Wanda chose for her family to watch for TV night, as it was her favorite. Suddenly, a mortar shell hit their apartment building, instantly killing both of Wanda's parents, Olek and Iryna Maximoff.
 survive the bombing]]
Trapped inside the crumbling building, Pietro Maximoff moved himself and his sister under the bed, where they witnessed a second shell land three feet in front of them. Wanda noticed the TV still playing, so she used it to comfort herself. For the next two days, the twins stared at the shell, reading the name Stark Industries on it, fearing it would detonate at any moment, but it did not. Eventually, they were rescued. Wanda and Pietro were subsequently admitted into a Sokovian orphanage. While there, they lived and interacted with a child who had a skin condition, which was particularly memorable for Wanda. 

#### Protesting Against Heroes

 attend a protest]]
 
This horrifically traumatic experience gave the twins a deep enmity towards Tony Stark, and later, the Avengers, whom they aimed to take down. The Maximoffs dedicated much of their lives to this goal, including organizing protests against both Stark Industries and the Avengers, whom they blamed for their parents' deaths. Their constant political activity put Wanda and Pietro on S.H.I.E.L.D. and Hydra's radar as potential threats and allies, respectively. 

### Avengers Conflict

#### Joining Hydra

 experiments]]
 
By the time the twins reached adulthood, Sokovia had become a war zone, with foreign forces led by the United States invading their streets frequently. Wanda and Pietro Maximoff took part in various riots to drive the Americans out of their home. What the twins did not realize was that the riots were orchestrated by Hydra, who had taken up residence in the country under the guise of S.H.I.E.L.D. and were using its upheavals to cover up their experiments. In 2014, during one such riot, the Maximoffs were among the protesters approached by List, who offered them a way to achieve the power needed to end war in Sokovia. 
 ]]
Wanda was initially skeptical, but ultimately convinced by Pietro to agree to the experiments to gain new powers. Along with other volunteers from the town, Wanda and Pietro underwent a series of tests conducted by List and Baron Strucker, where they were exposed to energy from the Scepter, which had fatal effects on all the other volunteers. The Maximoff twins, however, survived and experienced exceedingly different side-effects.
 
In one test, Maximoff's latent powers were unlocked as tags saw the Mind Stone come out of the Scepter to her, showing her a vision of the Scarlet Witch, and then causing her to fall unconscious. The scientists quarantined Maximoff in her cell, and when she woke up, she saw that a TV was in the room. She then requested to watch the and watched it as she tried to recover from what had just happened. 
 
The power of the Scepter then unlocked latent supernatural powers within the twins; Pietro achieved superhuman speed, while Wanda attained a number of psionic powers. Unknown to her at the time, the event unlocked and amplified the latent Chaos Magic within her, fulfilling the myth of the Scarlet Witch. 

#### Attack on the Hydra Research Base

 ]]
 
In 2015, the Avengers arrived in Sokovia and raided Hydra Research Base, stealing the Scepter and arresting Baron Strucker. In the confusion, Maximoff and her brother Quicksilver escaped from their holding cells and, though inexperienced, were able to use their powers to evade the Avengers and escape.
 ]]
While Quicksilver went outside and engaged Hawkeye, Maximoff stayed inside and defended Strucker. When Strucker became cornered by Captain America, he attempted to surrender. However, Maximoff snuck up behind Captain America and used her powers to throw him down the stairs. In the confusion, Maximoff escaped through a doorway. Captain America reported to the rest of the Avengers of the second enhanced individual on Hydra's side before knocking out Strucker and taking him into custody.
 ]] 
Maximoff used her powers to briefly distract Tony Stark, tricking him into believing that a dead Leviathan specimen that Strucker had been studying was still alive, and showing him a dark vision where the Avengers were dead and the Chitauri invaded Earth from a wormhole. Upon seeing Stark's true fear of leading humanity down the path to global destruction, Maximoff allowed Stark and the Avengers to make off with the Scepter, despite Quicksilver's protests, with hopes that Stark's tampering with the alien weapon would lead to his own self-destruction. 

#### Joining Ultron

 hide out in Sokovia]]
 
With the Hydra Research Base off limits and Baron Strucker captured, Wanda and Pietro Maximoff returned to Sokovia, where Pietro provided for them by becoming a thief. One night, Wanda found Pietro handing out items he had stolen, including an expensive Parisian dress to Zrinka. She mocked her brother's attempts to flirt with all the women in Sokovia and warned him he would get shot if he kept stealing. As Pietro began to question Wanda's decision to let Tony Stark go free, Costel approached the pair and told them that "Iron Man" was waiting in the nearby Novi Grad Church for them. 
 meet Ultron]]
The twins went to the church and found a mysterious man waiting for them wearing a red cloak who spoke about how much he enjoyed the church. When Wanda grew wary and questioned why she could not read his mind, the man revealed himself to be Ultron, an artificial intelligence accidentally created by Tony Stark who subsequently went rogue and began a murderous vendetta against the Avengers. Ultron then led the Maximoffs from the church and back to the Hydra Research Base.
 ]]
Ultron revealed that he had taken over the base and was using it to create an army of Ultron Sentries. They discussed the reasons for killing the Avengers and Pietro told Ultron how they had lost their parents due to a Stark Industries missile. Wanda noted that she and Pietro nearly died at Stark's hand as well. Although they were initially unsure, Ultron assured the twins that they would use their powers to kill the Avengers, noting that while he and Pietro could hurt them, Wanda would be able to tear them apart from the inside. 

#### Battle at the Salvage Yard

 's mind]]
 
Agreeing to the alliance, Maximoff and Quicksilver accompanied Ultron in acquiring Ulysses Klaue's supply of vibranium. The Maximoffs entered the Salvage Yard first and shut off the lights before disarming Klaue and confronting him. Klaue remained unimpressed by the Maximoffs. Having heard of them already, he noted that he was saddened to hear of Baron Strucker's death then mocked the pair for their reaction to learning of their mentor's assassination.
 's men]]
Eventually, Klaue told the pair that he would have no respect for them if Maximoff used her powers to make him see what he feared, a cuttlefish, and he wished to speak to the man in charge. In response Ultron threw Klaue through a window and introduced himself. Ultron forced Klaue to sell him his stockpile of vibranium and paid him billions of dollars. However, when Klaue offended Ultron, the robot responded by cutting off Klaue's arm and kicking him down some stairs while Maximoff used her powers to keep Klaue's men from defending themselves.
 fight the Avengers]]
When the Avengers arrived in an attempt to stop them, Ultron and the Maximoffs mocked their efforts, ignoring Captain America's attempts to convince the Maximoffs that they still had a chance to walk away. Ultron responded by attacking the team and the Maximoffs joined the fight. During the chaos of the battle, Maximoff managed to knock Captain America back with her powers and began "hexing" the minds of Thor, Black Widow and Captain America. She attempted to enthrall Hawkeye but was subdued when he pushed a taser arrow onto her forehead.
 ]]
Quicksilver saved her in the nick of time, throwing Hawkeye through a window and taking her outside Klaue's base to recover. Although she suffered great pain from the taser arrow, Maximoff wished to complete their plan. She caught sight of Bruce Banner and managed to "hex" him as well, forcing him to transform into Hulk and go on a rampage through Johannesburg, resulting in Iron Man being forced to battle his friend. In the confusion, the twins managed to escape with Ultron and the vibranium, and made their way to Seoul. 

#### Ultron's Intentions Revealed

 's true intentions]]
 
When the trio arrived in Seoul, Ultron used the Scepter to indoctrinate Helen Cho, forcing her to use the vibranium in synchrony with the Regeneration Cradle to build a new, more powerful body for Ultron. As Ultron's consciousness was being uploaded into the body, Wanda curiously took the opportunity to explore Ultron's mind through the body and was horrified to learn of Ultron's true plans, which involved the genocide of humanity in its entirety. Wanda freed Cho from the mind control to halt the creation of Ultron's body. With Pietro Maximoff, she then abandoned Ultron and fled the facility, much to his dismay. 

#### Battle of Seoul

 decide to assist the Avengers]]
 
Wanda and Pietro Maximoff attempted to escape Seoul, but as they made their way through the city, they spotted a news report showing that the Avengers were battling Ultron and his army in the middle of the city, endangering thousands of lives. Refusing to allow the people of Seoul to be put in danger, the twins decided to help the Avengers.
 fight Ultron]]
They eventually caught up and assisted Captain America in fighting off Ultron on a moving passenger train. Maximoff used her powers to put a defensive barrier between Ultron and Captain America by twisting the metal bars inside the train while Quicksilver knocked him down. Upon seeing that he was betrayed and outnumbered by his former allies, Ultron responded by destroying the controls of the train before flying out the side door and escaping, leaving the Maximoffs and Captain America on the train going full speed as it headed to the end of the tracks.
 
With the train now completely out of control and heading to the middle of the city, Captain America ordered Maximoff to stop it, while Quicksilver moved any civilians out of its path. Mustering up all of her telekinetic power and strength, Maximoff lifted the train's wheels off the ground and applied the breaks as hard as she could. Although the train was slowing down, it still crashed through buildings. Quicksilver was able to save the lives of the people in the way until the train was finally stopped in its tracks.
 of Tony Stark]]
With the train now stopped, Maximoff ran to her brother's aid, as he could barely stand after running so fast for so long. When Captain America revealed that the Regeneration Cradle and Ultron's would-be body had been sent to Tony Stark for analysis, Maximoff was disturbed, aware that Stark would attempt to utilize the body rather than destroy it in order to correct his own folly. Although Captain America was reluctant to accept this as a possibility, noting that Stark was not ludicrous, Maximoff compared Stark and Ultron and made key comparisons with their mindsets. 

### Changing Sides

#### Birth of Vision

 ]]
 
Wanda and Pietro Maximoff then accompanied Captain America back to the Avengers Tower and found Wanda's fear to be accurate; Tony Stark and Bruce Banner were trying to upload the consciousness of J.A.R.V.I.S. into the body. After a brief scuffle, Wanda was held back by Banner but she managed to escape his hold, only to witness Thor bringing the body to life.
 ]]
She watched in fear as the being initially attacked Thor before looking over New York City and calming down. The being introduced himself to them, calling himself Vision. The Maximoffs and the Avengers continued to be wary of Vision, with Wanda noting that she had seen the destruction of Earth in his head. Eventually, Vision convinced the team that he was on their side and proved his worthiness by picking up Mjølnir and handing it to Thor.
 ]]
She and Pietro then agreed to join the Avengers in stopping Ultron and saving Sokovia, where he would be enacting his final plan. The Maximoffs took new uniforms and joined the Avengers on the Quinjet as Captain America gave a speech where he informed the team that their priority was getting the innocent people of Sokovia out of harm's way before Ultron could destroy their homes and lives. Wishing to save the lives of her friends from her home city, Wanda sided with her former enemies, although she was unsure of trusting the Avengers in the long term. 

#### Battle of Sokovia Begins

 arriving in Sokovia]]
 
Upon arriving in Sokovia, Maximoff played a significant part in evacuating civilians from Novi Grad, using her powers of mind control on dozens of innocents at once and leading them safely from the war zone. When the army of Ultron Sentries began their attack, Maximoff took up a defensive position on a bridge, shielding innocent civilians from enemy fire with her powers as they ran to safety. However, the firepower of the Sentries proved too strong and knocked her back.
 rising]]
Eventually, Ultron, using a device forged from the remaining vibranium samples, forced a large part of the city of Novi Grad to levitate so that once it reached a certain height, it would cause an extinction level event once it made an impact with Earth. As Ultron gave a speech to the people of Sokovia while flying outside the city, Maximoff and the rest of the Avengers could only look on in horror as Ultron unleashed his seemingly unstoppable plan. 

#### Rescued by Hawkeye

 's speech]]
 
This, along with the carnage that was falling upon Novi Grad, overwhelmed Maximoff. Hawkeye managed to lead her into a vacant building for safety from the Ultron Sentries. Maximoff struggled with terror and guilt over causing such a disaster in her own home, perceiving it as being her fault and beginning to lose morale.
 's words]]
However, Hawkeye brushed aside Maximoff's guilt for the time being and simply responded that she needed to make a choice: either stay hidden and wait for her brother to take her somewhere safe or continue the battle. 

#### Becoming an Avenger

 ]]
 
Hawkeye assured Maximoff that if she stepped outside and fought, then her past would not matter and that she would become an Avenger. As Hawkeye then returned to combat as Maximoff was left to think over what he told her. With her confidence restored by his words, Maximoff stepped outside and saved the overwhelmed Hawkeye from a small squad of Ultron Sentries, using her powers to pull them apart and throw them across Novi Grad.
 clear the Sentries]]
Once the Sentries were destroyed, the pair reported to Captain America and prepared for their next mission. As they began to walk through the city, Quicksilver ran in and picked up his sister, running across the city with her while leaving Barton to jog behind.
 's army]]
Maximoff and Quicksilver ran into the middle of the city and teamed up to assist in the battle by protecting civilians still trapped in the city, running ahead of Sokovian Police Department officers who were pinned down by the Ultron Sentries. As Maximoff fired energy blasts at the robots, eliminating multiple at once, Quicksilver ran into the battle but was accidentally grazed in the arm by a police officer despite the chief calling for the police to stop firing. 
 
Rogers informed the Avengers that they are leading the civilians to the town hall. He met up with Maximoff and Black Widow, who asked why Maximoff was wearing her jacket. Captain America told her that Maximoff was with them now. Hawkeye then caught up with them and warned that if they got any higher, people would start dropping. Captain America ordered Maximoff to get the civilians out from hiding, and for Hawkeye to watch her back. 
 ]]
Soon after, a Helicarrier commanded by Nick Fury and Maria Hill came to the Avengers' aide, sending out Lifeboats to evacuate the civilians still trapped at the city. Once the transports landed, Maximoff assisted in escorting civilians to the Lifeboats that ferried them aboard the flying aircraft carrier, keeping the women and children back until it was safe and ushering them on board alongside Hawkeye. Meanwhile, Fury sent War Machine to protect the Lifeboats from any Sentries attacking them mid-air. 

#### Protecting the Key

 ]]
 
Maximoff, Quicksilver and the rest of the Avengers regrouped at the church in the center of Novi Grad where Ultron had set up the key to the device that would cause the city to drop. Captain America explained that Ultron must not be allowed to activate the key as it would destroy the city and the planet. As they stood around the key, Ultron hovered outside the church. When Thor challenged him, Ultron showed off his army of hundreds of Ultron Sentries.
 ]]
When Ultron unleashed his army upon them, Maximoff and the Avengers put all their might into battling the seemingly endless horde of Ultron Sentries, with Maximoff using her gifts to tear apart many at once on the ground, pull them out of the air and rip them apart from the inside. Eventually the team managed to wipe out the majority of Ultron's drones and Ultron himself was almost destroyed by the combined might of Vision, Thor, Iron Man, and the Hulk, who destroyed his armor and sent him across the city.
 
With the battle almost won, Captain America ordered the team to evacuate the city before Iron Man and Thor destroyed the key and Novi Grad itself. As the key needed to be guarded against Ultron in the meantime, Maximoff volunteered to stay behind, telling Hawkeye that it was her job to protect it. The team agreed but Quicksilver insisted that he would not leave her behind, but she ordered him to continue getting the people to the boats and only come back for her at the last minute, insisting she could handle the responsibility. 

#### Quicksilver's Sacrifice

 's death]]
 
While keeping the Ultron Sentries away from the key, Maximoff sensed a terrible thing, as her brother attempted to save Hawkeye and a young boy from Ultron, who had obtained a Quinjet, he was shot and killed by the robot. Sensing this, Maximoff dropped to her knees and cried out in pure anguish, obliterating the sentries she had been fighting with a single blast of energy.
 ]]
Overcome with rage and emotion, Maximoff left her post to avenge her brother, tracking down Ultron, who had been ripped out of the Quinjet by the Hulk and had crash-landed inside a bus. Maximoff knelt beside her former ally, who pleaded with her to escape before she was killed in the approaching explosion, Maximoff told the robot that she had already died due to heartbreak and to demonstrate this, she telekinetically ripped his core processor from his body.
 ]]
Her action inadvertently allowed a single Ultron drone to activate the device, sending Novi Grad plummeting towards Earth with her still trapped inside. Maximoff accepted her fate as she plummeted towards the ground, being the only person left in the city; however, she was rescued at the last minute by Vision. Seconds after their escape, Iron Man and Thor averted the cataclysm by combining their abilities to vaporize the city, saving billions of lives. 

### New Avengers

#### Moving to the United States

 ]]
 
Afterwards, Maximoff was officially recruited into the Avengers and took residence in the United States of America. She went to the Avengers Compound in New York and joined James Rhodes, Vision, and Sam Wilson as new members of the team. Maximoff was also provided with a new uniform to wear as an Avenger. They met inside the Compound's hangar to begin their training under the leadership of Captain America and Black Widow. 

#### Bonding with Vision

 
 
Maximoff continued to grieve her brother and would watch sitcoms in her bedroom at the Avengers Compound to comfort herself. When she sensed Vision on the other side of the wall, he entered, apologizing for intruding, but she requested him to sit next to her and watch some television.
 starting to fall in love]]
As the pair watched the show, , Vision expressed a desire to learn about Maximoff's sadness, if that would bring her comfort, but she did not think it would, only wanting her brother back. However, Maximoff decided to open up to Vision, explaining the overwhelming sorrow she was feeling, but he believed that it would not always be that way, and that he saw it as love persevering, despite his lack of experiencing loss, noting he has never had a loved one. This cheered Maximoff up, and caused her to develop strong feelings for Vision, as they continued to watch the show, enjoying it together. 

#### Attack of Ultimo

 ]]
 
Maximoff practiced her telekinesis, but had trouble. She often sat in her bed and practiced her telekinesis on playing cards. Suddenly, the Avengers had to go to a small town in Europe to deal with Ultimo, a giant robot created by Hydra out of Ultron parts. Maximoff remarked at how unpleasant she found Ultron before going into battle. Eventually, Maximoff found enough strength in herself to overpower Ultimo. She thought to herself that it was simply another deck of cards before aiming her energy into the robot's mouth, ripping its head clean off. 

#### Lagos Catastrophe

 
 
One year after the Ultron Offensive, Maximoff joined her fellow Avengers in tracking down Crossbones and his mercenaries to Lagos, Nigeria. Maximoff positioned herself at a café, where she described the police station in the area, trying to uncover Crossbones' plan as part of her training from Black Widow, who was teaching her spy techniques.
 ' soldiers]]
They soon learned that Crossbones was planning to instead attack the Institute for Infectious Diseases and steal a biochemical weapon. Captain America then ordered them to make their way to the IFID to stop the attack. The Avengers immediately rushed towards the IFID, with Captain America arriving first on the scene, followed by Falcon and Maximoff, and took out the outside mercenaries. Maximoff lifted Captain America onto the third floor to subdue Crossbones and used her powers to vent the anesthetic gas out into the open air.
 
Falcon and Black Widow managed to neutralize the mercenaries and secure the biochemical weapon that Crossbones had obtained while they tried to escape through a busy marketplace. Captain America and Crossbones fought intensely before Captain America managed to disarm and subdue Crossbones. Crossbones taunted Captain America and claimed that the Winter Soldier had hired him to steal the biochemical weapon, once again under Hydra's mind control.
 
Maximoff arrived at the scene when suddenly, Crossbones pulled the cord on his suicide vest in an effort to kill both him and Captain America. She managed to temporarily contain the explosion around Crossbones and tried to move its impact away by propelling him into the air. However, Maximoff inadvertently destroyed a nearby building with the blast, killing many of its occupants, much to her horror. As she teared up in the streets, Black Widow arrived to comfort her. 

#### Feeling the Guilt

 
 
The Avengers returned to the Avengers Compound, where a month later, Maximoff still struggled with guilt over the deaths caused by the explosion. She watched a news report on the aftermath of the attack in Lagos questioning her ability to even operate in Nigeria.
 ]]
Steve Rogers tried to assure the young woman that it was not her fault, saying he should have taken apart Crossbones' suicide vest before it went off. Not totally convinced, Maximoff stated they were both at fault then, to which Rogers reminded her that despite the casualties, they were able to stop Crossbones from killing more. The two were interrupted by Vision, whom Maximoff scolded for once again phasing through the wall to get into her room instead of using the door. Vision apologized and informed Rogers that Tony Stark had arrived with Thaddeus Ross at the Facility. 

### Avengers Civil War

#### Sokovia Accords

 ]]
 
Maximoff, along with the rest of the Avengers, met up with Thaddeus Ross and Tony Stark who introduced them to the Sokovia Accords, a set of internationally ratified legal documents that should provide regulation and a framework for the military/law enforcement deployment of enhanced individuals which included Maximoff.
 ]]
Ross showed footage from battles that the Avengers fought in, showing the destruction and death that followed. When Ross showed them footage from the aftermath of their fight with Crossbones in Lagos, Nigeria, Maximoff felt the guilt seeing the damage that she blamed herself for.
 ]]
As the Avengers privately discussed the Accords, Maximoff was unsure at the time whether she should sign or not but stayed mostly silent during the discussion. When Stark told them about Charlie Spencer, a victim from the Battle of Sokovia, Maximoff once again felt uneasy due to her tragic past with Sokovia. When she brought up the fact that she would be hunted if they did not sign, Vision assured her that they would protect her.
 ]]
While the other Avengers left to deal with Winter Soldier and attend the meeting in Vienna, Maximoff stayed at the facility under the watch of Vision. Vision tried to cook her something to lift her spirits, though his inexperience with food left it wanting. The two Avengers had a heart-to-heart about their powers and how they are feared by others, but when Maximoff tried to leave the facility, Vision stopped her, telling her that Stark had asked him to ensure she did not leave the compound until the debate with the Accords were over. Maximoff turned to Vision and asked him what he wanted out of her confinement. He promised that he only wanted the rest of the world to look fondly at her like he did. 

#### Rescued by Hawkeye

 ]]
 
Later, Steve Rogers sent Clint Barton to retrieve Maximoff from the Avengers Compound where she was being supervised by Vision. Barton created an explosion outside to distract Vision. As Maximoff watched Vision, she sensed a presence behind her and launched a knife at the intruder, stopping her attack when she realized it was Barton. Barton told her that they would need to go as Captain America needed their help to fight against the Sokovia Accords; as they were leaving, Vision returned and stopped them.
 ]]
Approaching the two, the trap that Barton had set up went off, paralyzing Vision with electricity. Barton began to leave again, but Maximoff hesitated because she believed that she had caused enough damage. Barton told her that if she wanted to make amends, she needed to get off her ass. As he tried to convince her to leave, Vision broke free, and he and Barton began to fight. Vision easily overpowered Barton, but Barton looked to Maximoff for help.
 ]]
Maximoff told Vision to release Barton and that she was leaving; Vision told her he should not allow her to. Using her powers to control the Mind Stone, Maximoff forced him to phase and release Barton. Vision warned Maximoff that if would leave, she would be feared by everyone, but Maximoff told Vision that she could only control her own fear and then blasted Vision many meters beneath the facility. With Vision subdued, Maximoff finally left with Barton en route to Germany to retrieve Scott Lang. 

#### Recruiting Scott Lang

 in Berlin]]
 
After incapacitating Vision, Maximoff and Clint Barton went to go retrieve Scott Lang who had been recommended by Sam Wilson. The three were waiting in a van in Berlin when Rogers arrived. He thanked Maximoff for having his back and Maximoff replied that she needed to get off her ass, reflecting what Barton told her earlier.
 to Steve Rogers]]
When they introduced Lang to Rogers, Maximoff watched as Lang awkwardly talked with Rogers, then praised her as well. Later, an announcement was made saying the airport was being evacuated due to Tony Stark. The group all suited up and made their way to the Leipzig-Halle Airport where they would depart to Siberia. 
 

#### Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport

 inside of the airport]]
 
Captain America and his team headed to the Leipzig-Halle Airport where a helicopter was waiting to take them to Siberia. However, anticipating an ambush, from Iron Man, they split up--Maximoff with Hawkeye. They positioned themselves inside the airport, and watched as Captain America was immediately surrounded. After Hawkeye freed Captain America, breaking the webs with an arrow, the two made their way to stay away from the conflict.
 ]]
However, they were spotted by Iron Man, who pursued them as they tried to escape, firing several missiles near them. Iron Man then confronted them and told Maximoff that she hurt Vision's feelings, and they argued about why she had been locked up. While Hawkeye was distracting Iron Man, Maximoff used her powers to launch several vehicles as projectiles in the parking garage behind him, finally burying him and buying them time to escape.
 's team]]
Maximoff and Hawkeye managed to make their way to Captain America and his team, so they could get to the Quinjet that would take them to Siberia. As they made their way to the Quinjet, they were stopped by Vision, who fired a laser beam in front of them. He then warned them to stop, as the rest of Iron Man's team regrouped. The two teams stood on opposite sides of each other as they prepared to fight. 

#### Fighting Former Teammates

 ]]
 
The battle between the Avengers then began with the two teams charging at each other. Maximoff launched herself into the air towards Iron Man's team where she targeted Spider-Man by hurtling asphalt from the ground and nearby objects directly towards him, which he was able to evade.
 ]]
Due to possessing much more power in her abilities compared to her friends, and not being a physical fighter, Maximoff only focused on protecting her allies whenever they would be subdued. As Black Widow and Hawkeye fought, Maximoff interfered with Widow's blow by pinioning her limb and then throwing her away from Hawkeye. Before moving on, she told Hawkeye to stop pulling his punches and proceeded to her next fight.
 ' life]]
When Black Panther and Winter Soldier engaged in a fight, which Black Panther had the intent on killing him, Maximoff managed to narrowly stop him by blocking his claws from tearing out Barnes' throat. Having halted Black Panther's attacks, Maximoff then tossed him away from Barnes, keeping him safe. 

#### Winning a Losing Battle

 ]]
 
As Iron Man's team pressed on, Falcon realized they could not win the battle and get everyone to Siberia. So, Hawkeye confirmed that only Captain America and Winter Soldier could get to Siberia while the rest of the team stayed behind. To distract Iron Man's team, Ant-Man transformed into "Giant-Man," focusing the opposition on defeating him rather than stopping Captain America and Barnes from reaching the Quinjet.
 ]]
However, War Machine managed to evade Giant-Man and pursued the two until Maximoff started hurling large objects at him, keeping him from reaching the hangar. Vision destroyed a traffic control tower so Captain America and Barnes could not escape but Maximoff used her powers to hold back the debris for them to pass. Seeing this, War Machine used a Stark Sonic Cannon to subdue her and bring her down, causing the tower to fall.
 ]]
After the battle, Vision went to check on Maximoff, and they apologized to each other. As Vision comforted Maximoff, War Machine requested Vision's back up in disabling Falcon's wing thrusters. Distracted, Vision accidentally grazed War Machine's arc reactor, disabling the suit and causing him to fall from the sky, paralyzing him upon impact, therefore letting Captain America and Barnes fly away to Siberia. 

#### Imprisoned in the Raft

 ]]
 
After their defeat, Maximoff, Clint Barton, Sam Wilson, and Scott Lang were arrested by Thaddeus Ross and imprisoned in the Raft. Maximoff was the only one outfitted with a shock collar and put in a straitjacket to prevent her using her powers. When Tony Stark visited the prison, he was disturbed to see Maximoff's condition.
 ]]
Steve Rogers eventually infiltrated the Raft and freed Maximoff, Barton, Wilson, and Lang from their cells. Following her liberation, Maximoff opted to leave Rogers, Wilson, and Natasha Romanoff and stay in hiding in Scotland. During her time in hiding, she changed her brown hair color to more of a strawberry blonde, completely dropped her Sokovian accent, reunited with Vision and started a relationship with him. When Vision stayed with her, he would take a human form and turn off any trackers, so the two could be with each other. 

### Infinity War

#### Attack on Vision

 spend time together]]
 
Two years later, Vision began to feel an alert from the Mind Stone in his forehead, asking Maximoff to use her powers to feel it. She claimed that all she felt was him and the two embraced each other. They then went outside where Maximoff informed Vision of train times so that he could return to the Avengers Compound. Vision began suggesting that they form their own life together, which she was unsure about due to the promises they had made to their respective teams.
 ]]
Before she could give her official answer, she saw through a store window a news report about an attack in New York City and the report of Tony Stark being shown missing. When she saw two aliens in the report, she became frightened and asked what they were. Vision then prepared to leave, intending to join the fight, but Maximoff was reluctant to let him leave because she knew his life would be put at significant risk if the news report was true. Moments before he was about to reply to her, he was brutally stabbed by Corvus Glaive, to Maximoff's horror. She tried to use her powers but was thrown away into a store by an energy blast from Proxima Midnight.
 ]]
They then began to forcefully remove the Stone from Vision's forehead, but Maximoff was able to fight them off. Maximoff attempted to escape with Vision and temporarily hide from Midnight and Glaive before they were found. Maximoff faced Midnight, trying to swerve and block Midnight's spear with her powers, while Vision unsuccessfully fought Glaive on top of a church. When Vision again became subdued, Maximoff rescued him from Glaive and attempted to escape with Vision again by flight, but the two were blasted out of the air by Midnight and cornered in an empty train station.
 ' arrival]]
Maximoff prepared to be the final line of defense for Vision, using her powers to form psionic energy in both her palms, until Steve Rogers arrived, joined by Sam Wilson and Natasha Romanoff, who, with relative ease, managed to defeat Midnight and Glaive, but they escaped. Rogers decided that they had to return to the Avengers Compound in hopes of developing a plan to help Vision and gaining more information about their extraterrestrial attackers and Maximoff helped Vision into the Quinjet. 

#### Trying to Save Vision

 ]]
 
Maximoff, Vision, Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, and Sam Wilson arrived at the Avengers Compound and reunited with James Rhodes and Bruce Banner. They then discussed the rising threat. Vision came to the conclusion that the only way to make sure that the Stone would not be taken was if it was destroyed by Maximoff.
 's proposal]]
However, she rejected this idea, knowing it would kill him in the process. Despite Vision's persistence, Banner produced an alternative idea that entailed removing the Stone, keeping Vision alive through the other components of his creation. However, this could not be done by Banner, so Rogers suggested that they go to Wakanda.
 ]]
Maximoff flew via Quinjet with the team to Wakanda. Once there, they sought the aid of Shuri, the sister of T'Challa. As Vision was scanned by Shuri, Maximoff asked if she would be able to remove the Stone. She told her that she could, but it would be difficult due to the two trillion neurons that needed to be dealt with carefully.
 ]]
Suddenly, a swarm of Outrider Dropships landed outside the dome, causing everyone to go outside to defend Vision. Rogers ordered Maximoff to destroy the Stone as soon as it was removed from Vision, tasking her to stay there. Maximoff stood by Vision as he underwent the removal of the Stone. However, after witnessing the arrival of Threshers, she realized she had to be out there. 

#### Battle of Wakanda

 ]]
 
Maximoff then left and flew out to the battlefield, where she saved Natasha Romanoff and Okoye by stopping the incoming Threshers and threw them on top of the Outriders. However, her presence of the battlefield allowed Proxima Midnight to notify Corvus Glaive that Vision was left unguarded by her.
 she will help Vision]]
When Sam Wilson pointed out Vision being in danger, Maximoff went to help him, but was struck in the head by Midnight, causing her to fall into a ditch. Midnight then taunted Maximoff as she prepared to kill her, but was stopped when Romanoff and Okoye intervened. The two fought off the alien, as Maximoff recovered from the powerful blow she received.
 ]]
As the fight continued, the two found themselves overwhelmed by Midnight, who came close to killing Black Widow. However, Maximoff was able to step in and use her powers to stop Midnight by launching her into an incoming Thresher, ultimately killing her. Following this, she quickly returned to Vision's side to protect him. 

#### Thanos' Victory

 ]] 
 
Maximoff then flew into the forest and found Vision. She comforted him, but he told her the Mind Stone was telling him that Thanos was coming. Steve Rogers rallied the team together and told them to be ready.
 's arrival]]
Maximoff then witnessed a strange wind in the weather and saw a wormhole appear with Thanos walking through. At his arrival, she became frightened, unnerved by what was happening. Bruce Banner then identified him and Rogers told everyone to stay sharp, with Maximoff preparing herself to fight.
 ]]
Maximoff was about to join the fight, but Vision told her that she had to destroy the stone. She continued to refuse to do so, but he begged her to, knowing it was the only way to thwart Thanos' plans. Vision then comforted her as she understood what had to be done, still greatly upset about doing it. He reassured her, stating that she could never hurt him and repeating her earlier words, "I just feel you."
 ]]
In tears, Maximoff reluctantly unleashed a stream of psionic energy into the Stone while Rogers, Bucky Barnes, Sam Wilson, T'Challa, James Rhodes, Natasha Romanoff, and Okoye were defeated by Thanos. Maximoff tearfully watched as Groot made a last attempt to stall Thanos, but was defeated as well. Rogers tried one last time, but was defeated again.
 ]]
As Thanos approached her, she then struck him with a separate stream of energy to stall him further, slowing him down significantly, before managing to destroy the Stone just as he was about to reach them. Maximoff continued to break down in tears as she used her powers to destroy Vision and the Mind Stone and hold back the Mad Titan. As she begins to break the Stone, Vision let a whispered remark of "I love you" to Maximoff as he was dying. The Mind Stone then shattered, releasing a huge blast of energy that knocked Maximoff to the ground and destroyed Vision's body.
 ]]
As Maximoff laid on the ground, heartbroken, Thanos empathized with her pain, understanding the sacrifice of what she most loved. She bitterly stated that he knew nothing. She then watched in horror as Thanos used the Time Stone to restore Vision with the clear intent to rip the Mind Stone from his head. Maximoff attempted to stop him, but Thanos forcefully swatted her aside with little effort and ripped the Stone from Vision's head, killing him a second time. Now equipped with the final Mind Stone, the Infinity Gauntlet was complete.
 ]]
With Thanos finally succeeding in his plan of collecting all of the Infinity Stones, he unleashed the full extent of his new power. With a mere snap of his fingers, Thanos began to exterminate half of all lives in the universe in random succession. Maximoff knelt over Vision's lifeless body before disintegrating into dust. 

#### Battle of Earth

 against an alternate Thanos]]
 
In 2023, as a result of the Blip, Maximoff was restored to life. She, along with the other restored Avengers and Wakandans, were then transported via portal to the ruins of the Avengers Compound to join the battle against alternate Thanos and his army.
 ]]
With all heroes united, and armies rallied, Steve Rogers led the ensuing charge against Thanos' army. Maximoff used her powers to blast airborne enemies with large bolts of her psionic energy.
 ]]
In the thick of the battle, an enraged Maximoff, with the recollection of Vision's death still fresh in her memory, faced alternate Thanos herself and blamed him for Vision's death.
 ]]
Being an alternate version of his main counterpart, Thanos retorted that he did not know who she was. In response, she taunted him that he would as she rapidly overwhelmed him by hurling enormous piles of debris and powerful blasts of energy. During their skirmish, Maximoff tauntingly smirked at a feign attempt by Thanos to kill her with his sword and she fiercely blasted him with a single energy strike, breaking his sword in half.
 ]]
After breaking his Double-Edged Sword in half, Maximoff suspended Thanos in the air, peeling off his armor and slowly tearing him apart. To save himself from her wrath, he was forced to call in an air strike from the Sanctuary II. Maximoff then tried to shield herself, only to be knocked back by the blasts, sustaining only concussive force. Relief came in the form of Carol Danvers, who destroyed the spaceship with ease.
 ]]
Maximoff joined Danvers as she collected the Nano Gauntlet from Peter Parker and told him not to worry. She then stood alongside Danvers, Okoye, Valkyrie, Pepper Potts, Mantis, Shuri, Nebula, and Hope van Dyne and breached through the enemy lines to reach Luis' van and the Quantum Tunnel. She cleared a path through a horde of Outriders and single-handedly held back a Leviathan to assist Valkyrie and Warsong.
 ]]
Maximoff continued to take out Thanos' army, using her powers while in flight, mainly defeating the bigger and stronger opponents. After an intense battle, Thanos and his entire army were defeated when Iron Man wielded the Stones and snapped the forces out of existence, resulting in his own life being taken. Everyone gathered around the fallen hero and knelt before him, showing their respect. 

#### Remembering the Fallen

 's funeral]]
 
About a week later, a funeral was held for Tony Stark at the Stark Eco-Compound, which Maximoff attended along with her fellow Avengers. She stood with Bucky Barnes and Sam Wilson as the funeral proceeded and watched as Pepper Potts and Morgan Stark place Stark's Arc Reactor into the river.
 ]]
After the funeral, Maximoff reunited with Clint Barton, who stood by her in silence, thinking of those they had lost. The two stood by the river, and Barton expressed his desire for Natasha Romanoff to know that they were successful. Maximoff assured him that Romanoff did know, as well as Vision, too.
 comfort each other]]
Having both recently lost people close to them, Maximoff and Barton both comforted each other. Due to her affiliation with the Avengers and her role in saving the universe, Maximoff was pardoned from her violation of the Sokovia Accords. 

### WandaVision

#### Wanting Vision Back

 's body]]
 
The next day, Maximoff, wanting to have a funeral for Vision, tracked his body to S.W.O.R.D. headquarters in Florida. She drove down there and Maximoff pled at the front desk that they return Vision to her. They directed her to the acting director, Tyler Hayward's office and she used her powers to open the door to the hallway. She then located the office and stormed inside.
 ]]
Hayward addressed Maximoff's intention to recover Vision's body, so he showed her to where they were dismantling him, much to Maximoff's horror. Explaining to Hayward that Vision was not a weapon, Maximoff once more asked to take his body so she could bury him, but Hayward refused, suspecting that she may want to resurrect him. Maximoff stated that she couldn't do that, nor was that her intention, but Hayward still refused.
 's body]]
Maximoff, upset by his words and in grief, used her powers to break the glass between her and Vision and levitated down to his corpse. Maximoff solemnly said her goodbye to Vision, discovering that she could no longer feel him, and left the facility. She then walked out into the parking lot back to her car.
 , New Jersey]]
Defeated, Maximoff drove out to Westview, New Jersey, where Vision had purchased a lot for them to build a house and live together. On her way to the lot, she observed civilians going about their everyday business. Arriving at the land, Maximoff opened a letter from Vision revealing he had plans for them to live there and grow old together.
 creating a Hex]]
Maximoff, overcome by severe anguish, fell to her knees and had a breakdown, causing her to unknowingly unleash her Chaos Magic for the first time, form a new reality around her, and transform the entire town of Westview, depicting it as a 1950s sitcom with the civilians she observed earlier as recurring characters. Maximoff was also able to conjure a house to live in and finished by creating a new Vision. Upon casting her spell, she engulfed herself in her new reality, where she and Vision reunited and started living the life they'd always dreamed of. 

#### Living in Suburbia

 married in Westview]]
 
Now living in a reality of her own control, including all the inhabitants and storylines, Maximoff and Vision; who she created, became newlyweds; who had just moved into town, attempting to blend in and live normal lives, despite Maximoff's telekinetic powers and Vision being an android.
 ]]
One day, the two noticed a heart drawn on their calendar, but neither knew what the occasion was. When Vision left to go to work, Maximoff was visited by Agnes O'Connor, who welcomed her to the neighborhood. Maximoff believed that it was her and Vision's anniversary, so O'Connor helped her prepare for the special night. Vision called Maximoff about the day's occasion, with the latter thinking it was their anniversary, and the former knowing it was a dinner with his boss and his wife. Maximoff, having the wrong idea, told Vision she had everything under control.
 
That night, when Vision came home with their dinner guests, Maximoff, wearing a night gown came down to surprise him, only to be shocked when she learned the true nature of the night. After changing her clothes, Maximoff was then forced to prepare a home cooked meal for the Harts, while also trying to hide her powers as she did. As Vision keep the Harts entertained, Maximoff struggled to cook dinner, so Vision checked in on her, and they switched roles, with Maximoff distracting the Harts. Despite the hijinks, Maximoff was able to make dinner, and the four sat down to eat.
 reaffirm their love]]
Ms. Hart asked Maximoff and Vision about their story, entailing where they moved from and how long they've been married, but neither of them were able to answer any of her questions. This led to Mr. Hart growing angry at the couple for not having an answer, until he began choking on his food. Ms. Hart began to eerily chuckle while repeatedly saying "stop it" as she glanced at Maximoff and Vision. This caused the reality to break, so Maximoff told Vision to help Mr. Hart, and everything went back to normal. After the Harts left, Maximoff and Vision reflected on the dinner, and decided to make it the day of their anniversary, with Maximoff making them wedding rings. 

#### The Magic Show

 
 
Transitioning into the 1960s, Maximoff and Vision were awoken in the night by strange noises, which turned out to just be the trees hitting the window. Because Maximoff altered their beds to now be joined, she and Vision took the opportunity to have sex.
 
The next day, Maximoff and Vision practiced their magic act for the neighborhood talent show, in which Vision was the magician, "Illusion," and Maximoff was his assistant, "Glamour." Later, Maximoff discovered a toy helicopter in color with a sword symbol outside her house, to her confusion, but was interrupted by Agnes O'Connor, and the two headed to the planning committee meeting, hosted by Dottie Jones. At the meeting, Maximoff, who was having trouble fitting in with the other women, met and befriended Geraldine, as they continue to listen to Jones.
 speak to her]]
After the meeting, Jones had Maximoff clean up, while also revealing that she has heard things about Maximoff and Vision. Maximoff tried to assure Jones that she didn't intend anyone harm, but Jones stated that she did not believe her. Suddenly, a voice came through the radio, speaking directly to Maximoff, but it was soon stopped which caused Jones to break her glass in her hand which led to her hand bleeding. Maximoff gasped and assisted her with a towel, but Jones immediately reverted to her personality as a housewife. This added to Maximoff's worries, but she carried on as normal. At the time of the talent show, Maximoff got dressed into her costume, and nervously waited for Vision to arrive.
 doing a magic show]]
Eventually, a malfunctioning Vision arrived, and Maximoff attempted to tell him about the strange occurrences she experienced, but they were brought on stage to begin their act. Despite Maximoff following the routine, Vision's state caused him to use his powers in front of the audience, which Maximoff had to cover up using her own powers, including making Geraldine appear in the Cabinet of Mysteries. After the show, Maximoff fixed Vision by removing the piece of gum inside him, and they returned home, being awarded Comedy Performance of the Year. 

#### Sudden Pregnancy

 
 
Maximoff and Vision reflected on their day, feeling that they fitted in with the town. Then, inexplicably, Maximoff became pregnant, much to their surprise and delight. They were interrupted by a noise outside, which was a beekeeper climbing out of the sewers, causing Maximoff to rewind reality so it would not be disrupted, as well as transitioning them into a color-filled 1970s. 
 ]]
The next day, Doctor Stan Nielson was called up to check on Maximoff, who detailed that she was about four months pregnant. Maximoff was completely delighted by all this, but Vision was concerned, due to the odd nature of her pregnancy, including her going further in stages. With the pregnancy occurring at a fast rate, Maximoff used her powers to build a room for the baby, while she and Vision debated the name, with Maximoff favoring Tommy, and Vision preferring Billy. Vision calculated that the baby should be born three days from then.
 
Due to the pregnancy's acceleration, Maximoff began to get contractions, which caused her powers to go haywire. Maximoff became nervous whether this would alert the residents of their true nature, which led to Vision expanding further, noting that the recent unusual events caused him to think something was wrong in Westview. But this concerning behavior from Vision made Maximoff rewind reality so she could continue living her ideal reality. At that moment, Maximoff's water broke, causing the plumbing to flood the house.
 ins]]
Vision rushed off to get Nielsen, leaving Maximoff at home, where she was soon joined by Geraldine, who Maximoff attempted to hide her pregnancy from, which became difficult, as she got closer to going into labor. As Maximoff listened to Geraldine, she noticed a stork walk around the house, which led to Geraldine discovering the truth. At that moment, Maximoff went into labor, so Geraldine helped deliver the baby, which she did successfully. Vision then arrived, but before the they could celebrate, Maximoff went into labor again, as she was having twins, who they named Tommy and Billy. 

#### Ejecting Geraldine

 to Geraldine]]
 
While Maximoff and Geraldine watched the twins, Maximoff mentioned she was a twin, bringing up Pietro Maximoff, before singing a Sokovian lullaby to her children.
 's true identity]]
Geraldine noted that Pietro was killed by Ultron, breaking Maximoff out of her daze, and causing her to interrogate Geraldine on how she knew about her brother. Geraldine attempted to put Maximoff at ease, but was demanded to leave, and when Maximoff noticed her necklace with a sword symbol, she grew more intent on knowing her true identity. Maximoff realized that Geraldine was not from Westview, and because she was trespassing within her reality, Maximoff used her powers to eject Geraldine out of the town.
 
Maximoff repaired the damaged walls with her powers, and then returned to her newborn twins, as Vision returned inside, asking about Geraldine. Maximoff told him that she returned home, but when she turned around, she was startled by Vision, who appeared as his corpse, causing her to look away in horror, but when she looked back, everything was normal again. Vision told Maximoff that they didn't have to stay in Westview, but she refuted it, saying it was their home, and that she had everything under control. 

#### Raising Her Twins

 are helped by Agnes O'Connor]]
 
Now transitioned into the 1980s, Maximoff and Vision struggled to stop their children from crying, including Maximoff not being able to use her powers on them. Agnes O'Connor arrived to help look after Tommy and Billy in which Maximoff openly welcomed her. O'Connor then suggested that she can take care of Tommy and Billy, but Vision stopped her, becoming cautious if she was properly equipped for the task. But this caused O'Connor to begin to break character and directly ask Maximoff if she wanted her to redo the scene, causing Vision to be suspicious, but Maximoff tried to act like everything was normal. Vision questioned Maximoff as to why O'Connor acted so strangely, but Maximoff further tried to dismiss it. Their conversation was then halted when they then noticed that Tommy and Billy had aged-up to five years old.
 to not hide]]
Maximoff later discovered that her sons had brought home a dog, asking if they could keep it. When O'Connor dropped by again with a doghouse, and suggested the name "Sparky," Maximoff almost revealed her powers in front of her, much to Vision's concern. Maximoff claimed that she was tired of hiding, and felt Vision should embrace the same feelings, but he did not, and grew more worried. When Tommy and Billy asked once more if they could keep the dog, they aged themselves up again to ten years old, as Maximoff and Vision felt they were too young.
 children about family]]
While Maximoff watched her children train Sparky, they asked about their father's whereabouts, as she had sent him off to work to distract him. This led to Maximoff talking to the boys about how she and Vision disagree occasionally, but it would only be temporary, just like how the boys would fight with each other, but still always be brothers. Tommy then asked his mother if she had a brother, so Maximoff told him about Pietro Maximoff, telling them that he was far away, and that it made her sad sometimes. 

#### Confronting S.W.O.R.D.

 drone]]
 
When Sparky alerted Maximoff to a breach inside the Hex, she went outside to investigate, where she discovered that S.W.O.R.D. had sent in a drone. Monica Rambeau attempted to speak with Maximoff, but she used her powers to disable the drone, before they attempted to fire upon her.
 outside]]
Maximoff picked up the drone, and wearing her Avengers uniform, she exited the Hex, where she was surrounded by S.W.O.R.D. agents who took aim at her. After throwing the destroyed drone back to S.W.O.R.D., Maximoff confronted Director Tyler Hayward, warning him to leave her alone, and that she won't bother them if they didn't bother her. Hayward refused Maximoff's request, noting that she had taken an entire town hostage, to which Maximoff retorted that they were the ones with the guns pointed at her.
 ]]
Rambeau intervened, asserting that Maximoff was the one in control, and upon recognizing her as "Geraldine," Maximoff threateningly conjured a ball of psionic energy. Rambeau attempted to get through to Maximoff, claiming she didn't know the drone was armed, and that Maximoff, being a telepath and having all the residents in her control, knew Rambeau was a S.W.O.R.D. agent all along, and still trusted her to deliver her babies. Rambeau deduced that Maximoff, knew she was an ally that wanted to help her, but Maximoff told her she had everything she wanted, and no one was going to take it from her again. Maximoff then returned into the Hex, briefly controlling the agents with one wave of her hand to aim at Hayward. 

#### Vision's Confrontation

 dren about death]]
 
Back to her reality, Maximoff helped her children look for Sparky, who had gone missing. They were saddened to discover he had died, but Maximoff told her sons that they couldn't escape the sadness, nor could she reverse death.
 fight about her actions]]
After Vision finished burying Sparky, he brought up with Maximoff that he spoke with Norm, revealing that he knew she was controlling everyone in Westview. Maximoff attempted to deflect the conversation, but Vision stated that she couldn't control him. Maximoff tried one last time to end the conversation, but Vision persisted, becoming angry with her. Vision demanded to know what was outside of Westview, and exclaimed he didn't know who he was, so Maximoff reassured him of who he was.
 "]]
Unconvinced, Vision asked why there were no children in Westview, irritating Maximoff as she continue to tell Vision she wasn't controlling everything. Maximoff revealed that she was not sure of how it all started, but Vision continued, telling her that what she was doing was wrong. At that moment, the doorbell rang, which Maximoff did not cause, although Vision did not believe her. Maximoff opened the door, but did not recognize the person standing before her, who revealed himself to be "Pietro Maximoff," although he looked different, to Maximoff's shock. 

#### Halloween Celebrations

 
 
Having transitioned into the 1990s on , Maximoff, wanting to spend the day with her family, dressed up as a Sokovian fortune teller, and had Vision dress up as a Mexican luchador, having a kink for them. Maximoff and Vision discussed her "brother," who she was suspicious of, and was surprised when Vision told her that he wouldn't be joining them, as he was now going less along with Maximoff's control, but she let him leave, with "Pietro" filling in for him.
 "]]
While walking through the streets to take Tommy and Billy Maximoff trick-or-treating, Maximoff decided to test "Pietro," asking about their childhood, but he attempted to put her suspicion at ease, acknowledging that he knew he looked different, and saw it as Maximoff not wanting to be reminded of the past. After "Pietro" took the twins to collect more candy, Maximoff encountered Herb Feltman, who revealed to her that Vision wasn't on duty for the Westview Neighborhood Watch, to her confusion. Feltman asked if Maximoff wanted anything changed, but she reassured him that it was fine.
 gain powers]]
Disappointed by "Pietro's" influence on Tommy and Billy, Maximoff made them give back all the candy they stole, where she continued to question "Pietro," who outlined his role that she wanted him to play. After asking him about his missing accent, "Pietro" then explained to Maximoff how after he was killed by Ultron, he heard her calling him, so he came to Westview, knowing she needed him. Suddenly, when her sons returned, they discovered that Tommy gained super speed, like his uncle, so she told him to take his brother with him when he runs off, and not to go past Ellis Avenue. 

#### Expanding the Hex

 " discuss the Hex]]
 
As Maximoff and "Pietro Maximoff" admired the festivities set up in Westview, the two discussed Maximoff's current life. "Pietro" then began talking about how Maximoff was controlling all of the residents, noting that she took in some ethical considerations, and stating that he was impressed by her upgraded power set. When "Pietro" asked how Maximoff created the Hex, she wasn't sure, only remembering being filled with despair. Maximoff was interrupted by the sight of "Pietro" momentarily appearing as a bullet riddled corpse, much to her horror.
 to save Vision]]
Suddenly, Maximoff heard Billy Maximoff frantically calling out to her, telling her that Vision was in trouble, having just acquired telepathic powers. Maximoff attempted to calm her son down, asking where Vision was, but she was angered when "Pietro" said that her husband couldn't die twice, so she blasted him away. After telling him to focus, Billy then proceed to detail what he saw to his mother, resulting in her realizing he was outside the Hex. Maximoff then used her powers to freeze all the residents, and expand the Hex, saving Vision from death, and enveloping many S.W.O.R.D. agents. 

### True Power Revealed

#### Chaos Magic Falling Apart

 
 
With the expansion of the Hex, reality was transitioned into that of the 2000s, taking form as a mockumentary styled sitcom, where Maximoff, in a talking head, reflected on her actions. Alone in her bed, Maximoff ignored her sons, who came to her with problems. Maximoff soon came downstairs, deciding to isolate herself, where she noticed reality uncontrollably glitch out.
 
Deciding not to worry about Vision's whereabouts, Maximoff spoke to her children about how the man claiming to be Pietro Maximoff was not actually him, and that she didn't have any answers on everything that was happening. They were then visited by Agnes O'Connor, who decided to take care of Tommy and Billy for Maximoff so she could have time to herself. Maximoff continued to witness things inexplicably morph appearances, and when she talked about not knowing what was happening, her interviewer asked if it was what she deserved, to Maximoff's confusion.
 ]]
Later, Maximoff was surprised by the arrival of Monica Rambeau, but immediately became angered when she brought up Vision and what Tyler Hayward was doing, having had enough of dealing with S.W.O.R.D. She attacked Rambeau with her powers and brought the fight outside, which led her neighbors to witness the event. Maximoff accused Rambeau of lying and, using her powers, threw her to the ground, but to her surprise Rambeau was able to land safely with her new powers. Maximoff began to threaten Rambeau, but she withheld, which Rambeau noted was the difference between her and Hayward, and that he was making her to be the villain. Maximoff suggested that she may already be a villain, but Rambeau attempted to get through to her, only to be stopped by Agnes, who took Maximoff to her home. 

#### Learning the Truth

 
 
Upon entering Agnes O'Connor's House, Maximoff asked about her sons' whereabouts, so Agnes directed her to the basement. Maximoff discovered the basement only to not find her children. Instead, it kept going until she came across a dark demonic looking sanctum.
 ]]
She saw mystical items and a glowing book, until she was soon joined by Agnes, who revealed herself to be a witch named Agatha Harkness who had been secretly influencing Maximoff's reality. Surprised and before she could react, Harkness enthralled Maximoff and revealed what she had done. 
 ]]
Learning the truth about Harkness, Maximoff attempted to read her mind, but was unable to, so she once again asked about her children's whereabouts, but when she went to use her powers, they did not work, as Harkness had cast a protection spell. Harkness restrained Maximoff, and detailed how she waited patiently, and worked slowly, including using a fake Pietro Maximoff to manipulate her, to figure out how Maximoff created the Hex, which was a combination of many spells being cast at once. However, she was unsuccessful, and was not able to get an answer from Maximoff.
 
Harkness recalled on what Maximoff said about only remembering feeling immense sadness before the Hex, and decided to enter her past to find the answer. Maximoff initially refused, but was forced when her children were threatened. Maximoff proceeded to live out the day her parents died, which were the origins of her witch abilities, then when she encountered the Mind Stone, which increased her power, then falling in love with Vision, and finally when she found Vision's body at S.W.O.R.D. Headquarters, leading to her creating the Hex in Westview, due to all her built up trauma. 

#### Battle of Westview

 
 
Snapping out of her past, Maximoff heard her sons calling out to her for help, so she rushed outside, where Agatha Harkness had them by the throats. Realizing the truth, Harkness explained how a being like Maximoff, which was perceived as a myth, was dangerous, having powers of spontaneous creation, which she had been using to live in a sitcom. Maximoff demanded that Harkness release her children, and she replied by telling her that her sons, Vision, and their reality were all Chaos Magic, declaring Maximoff as the Scarlet Witch. 
 ]]
Being outside the runes, Maximoff was able to use her powers, so she attacked Agatha Harkness, releasing Tommy and Billy Maximoff from her grip. After ordering her sons to go inside their house, Maximoff continued to fight Harkness, who was actually siphoning Maximoff's magic into her own body, and who offered to let Maximoff continue living in Westview if she gave it all up to her. Maximoff rejected Harkness' offer, and knocked her aside with a car, but could not find her in the wreckage.
 ]]
Suddenly, Maximoff witnessed White Vision arrive, so she asked if it was really him, but having been programmed by Tyler Hayward, he attempted to kill her. Before White Vision could be successful in his mission, Maximoff was saved by the Vision she created, and the two reunited and amended before resuming the fight against Harkness and White Vision.
 ]]
Following Harkness into the middle of town, Maximoff listened to her detail her true origin, stating that the Scarlet Witch was not born but forged, her power exceeds that of the Sorcerer Supreme, and her destiny was to destroy the world. Maximoff refused to accept this, so Harkness freed "Dottie Jones" from Maximoff's control.
 
She revealed herself to be Sarah Proctor and told her that her daughter could play with her boys if she could be released. Harkness then released the rest of the town's residents, such as Dennis Webber, Abilash Tandon, and Sharon Davis, who surrounded her. They all told Maximoff how they hated what she was doing to them and that her grief was causing them suffering. Maximoff, unaware of the amount of detriment she was causing the townspeople, became overwhelmed which caused her to accidentally hurt everyone by choking them with her magic restraints.
 
Now seeing the truth behind her ideal reality, Maximoff decided to set everyone free, and began destroying the Hex. However, when her husband and children arrived, they were being torn apart, as they were created within the Hex and therefore could not exist outside of it, so Maximoff stopped destroying the Hex, keeping her family alive. Harkness attacked them, so Maximoff protected her family with a force field, but it allowed Harkness to siphon some of her magic, draining more of Maximoff's life. 

#### Duel Against Agatha Harkness

 ]]
 
The family were then surrounded by Agatha Harkness, White Vision, and now S.W.O.R.D., who breached the Hex when it opened. Maximoff told her sons to deal with the soldiers as she went to continue fighting Harkness, now utilizing and embracing her magic. Using her mental manipulation powers, Maximoff confronted Harkness at the scene of her trial, but it soon backfired, with Harkness once again asking for her powers, promising to fix her pain, but Maximoff refused and fought back.
 's powers]]
The showdown now took to the sky, where Maximoff, pretending to give Harkness what she wanted, secretly began casting runes around the walls of the Hex to neutralize her enemy's magic. Having appeared to have had all her magic stolen, Maximoff floated in the sky, with her entire body drained, as Harkness revealed the Hex could not be fixed, and then went to finish her off, only for nothing to happen. Maximoff stopped her deception as she revealed that she cast runes around the Hex so only she can use magic.
 ]]
As Maximoff absorbed her magic back from Harkness, along with siphoning all of Harkness' magic as well, she transformed into the fabled appearance of Scarlet Witch. This frightened Harkness, who said she didn't know what she had unleashed, and Maximoff removed the dark storm clouds allowing the sunshine to reappear.
 ]]
Returning to the ground, Harkness asked what would become of her, so Scarlet Witch revealed that she was going to trap her inside her former role as the "nosy neighbor." Harkness attempted to warn her of what she's now unleashed, stating she'll need her, but Scarlet Witch ignored her and transformed Harkness into "Agnes." Scarlet Witch told Agnes that she lived in Westview, and that she'd be seeing her in the future, before walking away and reuniting with her family, knowing it was the end for them. 

#### Saying Goodbye

 dren]]
 
As the family returned to their home, Maximoff began removing the Hex, freeing everyone inside Westview. Knowing their children would be erased when the Hex was gone, Maximoff and Vision tucked them into bed, and said their goodbyes to them, not wanting to see them disappear.
 's existence]]
Maximoff and Vision headed downstairs, where they understood it was time for them to say goodbye, too. Seeing the Hex closing in, Vision asked Maximoff what he was, so she explained that he was created from the piece of the Mind Stone inside of her, as well as her memories and emotions for the original Vision. In his final moment, Vision acknowledged that they've said goodbye to each other before, so it would only be a matter of time before they are reunited again. At that moment, the Hex completely disappeared, along with Vision, her children, and the house around her.
 ]]
Standing alone in the empty lot of where her house used to be, Maximoff returned to the middle of town, passing all of the people she had enthralled, feeling a lot of shame as they scowled at her. Maximoff approached Monica Rambeau, who did not share the resentment towards her, but empathized with Maximoff, knowing what she was feeling, and what she had to sacrifice. She told her that if she had that power, she would have done the same due to her loss as well.
 ]]
Maximoff declared that she would try to understand her power, so she said goodbye to Rambeau before transforming into her Scarlet Witch uniform and flying away, just as the Eastview police arrived. As she flew out of Westview, she turned around and looked at it one last time before flying off. 

### Chasing Her Dreams

#### Studying the Darkhold

 ]]
 
Maximoff decided to seclude herself, and moved into a cabin in an unknown location, where she learned more about herself, and the power she possessed. Becoming more confident in her abilities, Maximoff learned about the Astral Dimension and was able to coexist in two forms. Her physical form performing menial tasks like brewing a cup of tea while her astral form reading the Darkhold to learn and understand her power. One day while reading the Darkhold, she heard what seemed to be the cries of her children calling for help. 
 kids]]
During her exile, Maximoff soon fell to the corruption of the Darkhold, learning of the Multiverse and that her children existed in alternate universes. She found out which universe they lived in and saw that they were happy in those universes. Throughout 2024, she began to have dreams every night of her with her children. She relived her last moments with them before waking up and realizing it was a dream. 

#### Learning of America Chavez

 
In her search for her children across the Multiverse, Maximoff became aware of America Chavez, a supernatural being with the power to travel across the Multiverse. Maximoff realized that she could steal Chavez's power to transport her to the universe where her children were alive, so she began sending creatures to capture Chavez. The Darkhold had not only corrupted Maximoff, but also corrupted where she lived, causing it to become a barren landscape with her chaos magic filling the atmosphere. In late 2024, Maximoff used the Ribboned Creature to capture Chavez, but she escaped. Maximoff learned that Chavez had arrived in her universe, so she sent Gargantos after her in New York City, but she had been rescued by Doctor Strange. 

#### Visited by Doctor Strange

 ]]
 
Maximoff then deduced that Doctor Strange would come to consult her after seeing that the attacks were a result of witchcraft. Maximoff prepared for his arrival by warping reality on herself and the landscape, in order to prevent any suspicion. Maximoff then created and apple trees, in which she went and plucked off tree branches that were of no use. As she did, she was approached by Strange, and she commented that she had known he would show up.
 in Westview]]
Pretending to think that he was there to discuss the events in Westview, Maximoff told him that she had made mistakes and people were hurt, though Strange quickly assured her she had repented by freeing the people of Westview, before telling her that he was not, in fact, there to discuss Westview, but to ask her about her knowledge of the Multiverse. She then walked with him and casually commented that Vision had told her of it and his belief that it was both real and dangerous, to Strange's agreement.
 ]]
As they walked, Strange asked her to come to Kamar-Taj, saying that he needed the help of an Avenger. Maximoff told him that there were other Avengers; however, Strange told her that only she could be of help, commenting that he couldn't ask people like Hawkeye, or Ant-Man, the Wasp, and Spider-Man for help with the Multiverse. Strange then explained to her that he had found a girl who was chased by inter-dimensional beings. Maximoff asked if he knew her was after her and then suggested he bring America Chavez to her location, only to realize that Strange had never told her Chavez's name. Strange stopped walking and looked suspiciously at Maximoff.
 ]]
Aware that he had deduced Maximoff was the one after Chavez, she unveiled her illusion and revealed that the farm was actually a red hellish barren landscape. She then summoned the Darkhold, much to Strange's surprise. Strange commented how evil the book was and that it could corrupt everything and everyone it touches. Maximoff shook her head and told him that it showed her the truth, that her children lived within the Multiverse and that she could use Chavez's powers to get herself to them.
 's hypocrisy]]
Strange stated that Maximoff was messing with reality and how dangerous that was, in which she expresses her contempt towards Strange by questioning his actions in the Infinity War, by giving the Time Stone to Thanos. She then noted that Strange recently messed with reality with the Runes of Kof-Kol and that when he did, he became a hero, while when she did it, she became the enemy; and it didn't seem fair for her.
 to hand over Chavez]]
Maximoff then asked Strange to hand over Chavez by sundown, and Strange will never see her again as she would be in another universe. As she walked away, Strange asked what would happen if they rejected her request. She told him that it wouldn't be Wanda who comes for her, but the Scarlet Witch. 

#### Siege of Kamar-Taj

 ]]
 
Maximoff then flew to Kamar-Taj in Nepal and created dark billowing clouds in the sky to signal her arrival. Doctor Strange met her in the sky and tried to reason with her. She stated that she had sacrificed everything, recalling how she had killed Vision in hopes of saving the universe from Thanos, and yet, she gained nothing as the Snap happened anyway, despite his vain sacrifice. She then flew closer to Strange, and bargained that if he gave her what she wanted, she would use the gained powers from Chavez to send him to a universe where he could be with Christine Palmer.
 ]]
However, Strange refused, making her angry, and she shot a blast of chaos magic at him, only to see that magical shields had been put up and that a magical barrier had been formed. Strange then flew back down as she looked for a way to enter. She flew around the magical barrier of Kamar-Taj and used her powers to try and break an opening. Realizing that she couldn't, she tried another way and used her astral form to mind control a young sorcerer to run and cause confusion. She was then able to breach the barrier and make herself inside the perimeter, wreak havoc using her hex bolts on Kamar-Taj.
 ]]
Maximoff was hit by a blast from one of the cannons, but quickly took it out, knocking out several sorcerers. She then blasted a group off of a building and toppled the building. As she continued, she destroyed the artillery and created serval fires throughout the courtyards. Strange and Wong ran inside yelling at others to fall back. In the chaos, sorcerers perished due to the fires. Maximoff then flew down to the ground, creating a wave of magic that burned any remaining sorcerers who were injured on the ground.
 ]] 
She then walked towards the entrance angrily. When she entered the first building, she saw Strange and told him that she had been more than patient. He told her that she would have to go through him, in which she said was fine. As she stepped inside, her foot pressed on a button and she saw the Mirror Dimension appear around her. Seeing that Strange was an illusion and that he had set up a trap, she became startled by the Dimension.
 ]]
She looked around and saw her reflection throughout. She then tried to use her powers to free herself, but it bounced back and forth inside the confined space. Maximoff noticed the mirror shards and the space between them, carefully using her finger to touch it. Finding out that it was a reflective pool, she used the spaces between the shards to look for an exit. As she looked, she took out Hamir and another sorcerer guarding Chavez. As she continued, the reflective pools began getting covered up and she finally found one, seeing Chavez looking down at it.
 
Maximoff then warped her body to crawl out of a gong and into another room where she saw Strange, Wong, and Chavez. Maximoff summoned the Darkhold before them and revealed using her powers, several universes that had her children in it and her Variants all were happy. She stated that every morning she had a nightmare knowing that she didn't have them.
 ]]
As she stared down at them, Strange tried to attack her using a spell that produced snake-like beings, but Maximoff swiftly blasted him aside. When Wong stepped forward to combat her, she swatted him aside and knocked him out. She then used her powers to seize Chavez and begin the process of stealing her powers. As Chavez became scared, she involuntarily opened a star-shaped portal. Strange then leaped at Chavez, just as Maximoff struck him, burning a hole in the Cloak of Levitation, and watched as they fell into the portal. 

#### Severed Connection

 ]]
 
Maximoff was left alone with Wong and used her powers to bind him up back in the courtyard. She then used the Darkhold to begin the dreamwalking ritual, a ritual where she could transfer her consciousness to a counterpart of herself by using Darkhold magic.
 in her Variant's body]]
After a moment of struggle, Maximoff succeeded in possessing a counterpart of herself living on Earth-838 and went to continue with her mission. However, she was stopped when she heard to voices that universe's Tommy and Billy. Maximoff was initially hesitant to look at them, but she gave in and became happy to see her children again, as they asked her to watch them perform a song, which she emotionally watched and made her smile.
 ]]
However, she was stopped from the ritual when Sara, one of the sorceresses, destroyed the Darkhold. Maximoff watched as Sara was burnt to death from doing so and then looked at the Darkhold, now disintegrating. Maximoff even tried to keep her possession, but the spell only works if there is an Darkhold, and the Darkhold book had just been destroyed, so the attempt was in vain and her consciousness was brought back to her body. Angry that it was gone, she released Wong and demanded to know where she could find another.
 
Wong refused and stated that she would have to kill him; however, Maximoff instead went outside the courtyard and prepared to kill Rintrah, Weasel, Vinny, and Ariann. Wong was then forced to reveal that the destroyed Darkhold was a copy and that it originated from Mount Wundagore, where Maximoff would be able to find the spell she needed. Maximoff having heard of the place before, took a Sling Ring from one of the sorcerers and instructed Wong to open an Inter-Dimensional Portal and take them there. 

#### Journey to Mount Wundagore

 ]]
 
Maximoff and Wong arrived through the Inter-Dimensional Portal on Mount Wundagore in Eastern Europe and found it to be snowing. When Maximoff saw the Darkhold Castle on the top of the mountain on the other side of a gorge, she asked Wong why he didn't portal them closer. He informed her that they were as close as his magic would take them as the Masters of the Mystic Arts weren't made to be there.
 ]]
Maximoff then used her powers to fly herself and Wong over to the Castle. When they went inside, Wong explained that the spells were carved there by the demon Chthon, who had written the Darkhold. As Maximoff lit fires in the Castle so they could see, they were ambushed by the Elder Beasts guarding it. Maximoff and Wong prepared to fight them, only for them to kneel before Maximoff. She watched in confusion and then saw that there was a Scarlet Witch statue behind an altar that she was standing on. Maximoff then realized that this was a throne room for the Scarlet Witch and it was made for her.
 talk about her plan]]
Wong questioned why she wanted to take America Chavez's power while she could just forcefully tell her to do her bidding; only for her to say it was for the sake of her children so she could protect them anytime they needed her, such as if they got sick. Wong got angry and questioned whether it wasn't enough knowing that her other counterparts were happy with their children. She replied with a no, before throwing Wong out of the castle. She then resumed the dreamwalking ritual. 

#### Attacking the Illuminati

 into her Variant again]]
 
Maximoff dreamwalked to Earth-838 and possessed her alternate self, who had fallen asleep on the couch. She then flew off from the house and out of that universe's Westview to that universe's New York City to the Illuminati Headquarters.
 ]]
She broke inside and destroyed the Ultron Sentries that came to defend the facility. In doing so, the oil from the Sentries splattered over her shirt and the side of her face. Due to this, smoke and fires were started in Maximoff's massacre of the Sentries. As she got closer to where America Chavez was imprisoned, she was confronted by members of the Illuminati; Captain Carter, Black Bolt, Mister Fantastic, and Captain Marvel.
 ]]
Mister Fantastic told her that he had family as well and understood her pain. She responded asking if his wife was still alive and he replied yes, in which she remarked that at least one parent would still be alive to raise his children. He told her that Black Bolt could defeat her within seconds with his mouth, in which she asked what he was talking about as she used her chaos magic to remove his mouth. Black Bolt felt for it and when he could not find it, panicked and screamed inside, causing his brain to fall out within his helmet and he crumpled over.
 ]]
Mister Fantastic then stretched out his arm to grab her, only for her to warp his body into strings of rubber, making his head explode in a burst of light. Maximoff then looked at the other two who braced themselves. Captain Carter and Captain Marvel fought her together, with Maximoff throwing Captain Carter's shield aside. She then lifted a statue and threw it into Captain Marvel, making her crash through a wall. Captain Carter then took Maximoff by surprise by bashing her with her shield. When Maximoff asked if Carter had enough, she responded she could do this all day. Carter then threw her shield at Maximoff, but she caught it with her powers and threw it back at Carter, sending it straight into her abdominals.
 ]]
As Carter fell to the ground, Captain Marvel returned and issued bursts of energy at Maximoff. Maximoff contained it and managed to overpower Captain Marvel, by connecting her power to her energy creating a huge blast. In the blast, Captain Marvel hit her back on a statue and fell to the ground. Maximoff then lifted another statue and made it fall onto Captain Marvel, crushing her.
 ]]
Maximoff then entered the room where Chavez was and prepared to kill Christine Palmer, until Professor X appeared. When Maximoff tried to blast him, he used his powers to get inside her subconscious. As he worked to free her alternate self's consciousness, she was stronger and overpowered her Variant's subconscious, and psychically killed Xavier, by snapping his neck.
 
Maximoff then pursued Chavez as she and Palmer ran away. She chased them, along with Doctor Strange, into an underground level. As she hobbled along, Strange and Palmer tried to stop her by closing metal doors in her path but she blasted through them. At one point, Strange closed a door and Maximoff didn't blast it, but faked them out, frightening them when she appeared suddenly. Strange then told Maximoff to hold her breath as she opened a sewer hole causing water to come gushing out above her.
 ]]
Maximoff caught up to them at the Gap Junction, using her powers to pull Chavez's hair. When she had Chavez in her grasp, Strange tried to attack her, but she absorbed and repelled his attack, blasting him and Palmer away, destroying the Book of Vishanti in the process. Maximoff then used her mind control abilities to make Chavez open a portal. She then threw Strange and Palmer into an unknown universe. She then used Chavez's power under her influence to open a portal back to herself and tossed Chavez through the portal, before leaving her alternate self's consciousness. 

#### Battle on Mount Wundagore

 arrive]]
 
Scarlet Witch placed America Chavez on the altar and began the spell to take her powers. Moments later, she was interrupted when Doctor Strange, in one of his counterpart's corpse, which had now become zombified, appeared before them. Scarlet Witch called him a hypocrite for using the dreamwalking ritual himself and struck him.
 ]]
Strange instead tossed the demons that had attacked him earlier onto her. She became frightened upon seeing the souls of the damned and struggled to fight them off. Wong then made his way back up and helped Strange contain her inside a spell with the demons. However, she eventually broke free and blasted the demons and Wong aside in extreme anger.
 ]]
Scarlet Witch then used her powers against Strange, threatening to kill him. She restrained him, causing him to be immobilized to do anything. As she did, she was caught off guard by Chavez, who jumped off the altar and punched Scarlet Witch backwards.
 ]]
Scarlet Witch glared at Chavez and gave a smirk, showing that she was more powerful. Chavez struck Maximoff a few more times, sending her through portals until she brought her to another realm. As Scarlet Witch looked down the ledge at the dimension, she used her powers to stop Chavez and push her back. Chavez then told her she couldn't beat her and punched her again, sending her to Earth-838 inside the Vision Residence. Scarlet Witch grabbed Chavez by the throat and demanded to know what she did, only to see Tommy and Billy on the couch, running away from her in fright.
 
She then witnessed her alternate self run down the stairs to comfort her boys. Scarlet Witch furiously declared that she was the boys' mother and blasted her alternate self away from them. Tommy and Billy then began throwing their toys at Scarlet Witch until this infuriated her and she snapped at them to stop, and they fled behind the staircase. She attempted to reach out and comfort the boys, but they pleaded for her not to hurt them. Taken aback, Maximoff insisted she would never do so, tearfully reiterating that she was not a monster, but a mother. However, Tommy and Billy's fear of her caused Maximoff to falter as she began to comprehend the many atrocities she had committed. Forced to realize her claims that she would never hurt anyone were not true at all, she backed away.
 ]]
As Maximoff watched the boys run back to her counterpart, she broke down weeping. Now realizing what the power of the Darkhold had done to her and having broken free from its possession, Maximoff finally accepted that her goal was impossible all along and she would never be the boys’ real mother. When her other self approached her, Maximoff looked away in shame in part of realizing how she went too far. However, 838-Maximoff comforted her and expressed empathy towards her pain, much to Maximoff's shock. 838-Maximoff reassured her counterpart that Tommy and Billy would be loved in this universe. 
 

#### Destroying All Darkholds

 ]]
 
When America Chavez closed the portal and brought them back to their universe, a heartbroken Maximoff was left alone once more in her guilt. She flew above the altar and prepared to destroy the Darkhold Castle. As Chavez and Wong left, Maximoff made peace with Doctor Strange and told him that it was her responsibility and penance to destroy the Darkhold and that nobody would be touched by its evil again. She then used her powers to destroy the Castle, breaking the Scarlet Witch statue, and destroying every copy of the Darkhold throughout the Multiverse. As she did, the Castle began to crumble and collapse on her. As the Castle crumbled, a red burst of magic flashed and Scarlet Witch was killed. 

### Legacy

#### Twins Alive

Unbeknowst to Maximoff, when she dispelled the Hex, her sons Billy and Tommy survived and still existed. Billy possessed the body of the recently deceased William Kaplan, and Tommy still existed disembodied. However, three years later on the Witches' Road, Billy was able to reincarnate his brother into the body of another recently deceased boy with help from Maximoff's old foe Agatha Harkness. 

#### Broken Spell

 's imprisoned mind]]
 
Despite her villainous actions, Scarlet Witch was still viewed as a hero after her death by the general public, as the Hex was covered up to be an Avengers training exercise gone wrong. Scarlet Witch was even given an exhibit at AvengerCon in 2025. However, the residents of Westview were still aggrieved at Scarlet Witch for unwillingly placing them under her Hex, and they communally agreed to never speak her name. They also vandalized the property that she lived in, referring to her as an "evil witch" and putting a strike through her logo. 
 ' imaginary morgue]]
With Scarlet Witch's death, her spell that she had cast over Agatha Harkness to remain as "Agnes" no longer remained. In 2026, Harkness had fallen deeper into the spell, imagining herself as a detective that was tasked with solving the murder of an unknown corpse that had been mysteriously crushed to death. Harkness eventually uncovered that the illusionary corpse was Scarlet Witch, revealing to her that she was now dead. With the assistance of Rio Vidal and Billy Maximoff, Harkness was able to free herself from the broken spell, although she was still stripped of her power from her fight with Scarlet Witch. 

## Powers and Abilities

### Powers

 
 
*Magic: Maximoff was born with innate magical abilities that were later amplified through her exposure to the Mind Stone. Initially unaware of her magical origins, Maximoff manifested her powers as psionics similar to the Stone's own capabilities. However, during the Westview Anomaly, Maximoff subconsciously began to use her powers in a larger scale. With the guidance of Salem witch Agatha Harkness, Maximoff discovered her magical origins and learned to cast more advanced spells. According to the Darkhold, Maximoff's powers surpassed even those of the Sorcerer Supreme. At this time, however, she had never received formal training and thus had not yet refined her magic, especially when compared to Doctor Strange. After she left Westview, Maximoff studied the Darkhold for a year, significantly enhancing her abilities and even becoming one of the most powerful beings of the Multiverse. Her witchcraft grew so formidable that even the combined efforts of Kamar-Taj's sorcerers failed to hold her for long. Maximoff's raw power came to exceed that of the Sorcerer Supreme, despite their greater experience in the mystic arts. Operating through an alternate self's body, Maximoff effortlessly defeated the Illuminati, demonstrating her unmatched magical prowess.
**Psionics: Maximoff's exposure to the Mind Stone unlocked psionic abilities rooted in her innate magical potential. When using her telepathic powers, her irises glowed a dark red, and her energy signature closely resembled that of the Stone. Although powerful, Maximoff's abilities initially required much concentration and physical movement, making her vulnerable to disruptions. For instance, War Machine was able to incapacitate her momentarily with sonic cannon, and her powers were neutralized with a straitjacket and specialized collar while she was held on the Raft. During the Battle of Wakanda, Proxima Midnight momentarily subdued Maximoff by striking her head with the hilt of her sword. However, by the time of the Battle of Earth, Maximoff's powers had grown so significantly that she was able to single-handedly overpower Thanos—a feat that even Iron Man, Thor, and the Mjølnir-wielding Captain America together were unable to match. Later, in her pursuit of America Chavez and after studying the Darkhold, Maximoff's powers advanced further, as she was able to destroy the heavily fortified Kamar-Taj with energy blasts alone and without much visible focus.
***Psychic Energy Manipulation: ]] Maximoff could project energy blasts, streams, waves and bolts of her own psionic and telekinetic energy, allowing her to strike, push, pull or blow away her targets, potentially exerting enough force to destroy them. This energy manifested in any shape or form, outlining her telekinetic spheres of influence, as the energy was visible in a reddish color. When her energy hit a target, she could use her telekinesis to inflict further damage. Significant emotional turmoil could both amplify Maximoff's power and cause her to lose control over it, such as when she inadvertently unleashed a wave of red psionic force that tore apart and disintegrated surrounding Ultron Sentries when she sensed her brother Pietro Maximoff's death, letting out a scream of anguish. Maximoff proved herself capable of destroying the Mind Stone, due to her powers having a similar energy signature. She could also use her psionic energy streams to enhance the powers behind her attacks, such as when she first used her telekinesis to bring Vision to his knees and then use a dense stream of energy to force him through several floors and several feet into the ground. During the attack on Vision, Maximoff utilized this power to knock back Proxima Midnight and Corvus Glaive using a bolt of psionic energy, and later used another blast to throw Corvus Glaive through the wall of a bell tower. She also showed the capability of multitasking while using her abilities, as she simultaneously held back Thanos with a stream from one hand while destroying the Mind Stone with a stream of energy from her other hand. She was also able to use her telekinesis with one hand to stop Thanos' sword in midair while also using a powerful energy blast with her other hand to cleave it into two pieces. In her second encounter with Thanos, Maximoff's energy blasts were powerful enough to force the Mad Titan to go on the defensive against her and were enough to knock him back and make him stumble backwards even when he blocked them with his sword. Maximoff was also able to push Monica Rambeau out of her reality with a powerful energy blast that sent her through several walls, including the barrier that divides Westview from the outside world; while leaving Rambeau completely physically unharmed and send "Pietro Maximoff" flying with a powerful blast. She accidentally used her powers to nearly suffocate the entire population of Westview when she was overwhelmed by her emotions and later to throw away reanimated witches from her while she was trapped in Harkness's hallucination. She could also utilize her psionic energy in a neurological way to manipulate the thoughts and memories of others, akin to telepathy. Her psionic energy was capable of persisting even when she was no longer actively controlling it, such as when residual energy persisted and clung to the S.W.O.R.D. drone she destroyed. During her attack on Kamar-Taj, Maximoff was able to use her energy bolts to knock down the defending sorcerers and weaken the fortress's structures, destroying most of the place without much effort. During her battle with the Illuminati, Maximoff used several energy blasts to attack Captain Carter. During the chase in the undergrounds of the Illuminati Headquarters, Maximoff was able to blast through several metal doors with ease. Later, Maximoff used an energy wave to break through the barrier that Wong conjured around her, destroying the Souls of the Damned and sending Wong flying away at the same time. Later, she used her energy to burn Defender Strange's zombified body while possessed by Doctor Strange, and at the same time crushing Strange's body, even while he was in another universe. She was also able to use her energy to stop a punch from America Chavez.
****Telekinesis: Maximoff had the ability to move, levitate and otherwise manipulate objects using her psionic energy in a remote manner without the need for her energy to first be projected from her hands. Maximoff used this energy to affect and control molecules and particles, allowing her to fully control matter and energy. Maximoff started training this power by moving wooden blocks around while imprisoned in Baron Strucker's secret facility. Maximoff pulled them apart with her power, and suspended them in the air. Maximoff used this power to stop an off-rail train in Seoul, tear apart Ultron sentries and rip out the central processor of Ultron's primary body, which was made of vibranium. Maximoff's telekinesis could control a soldier's gunfire and throw him away, lift Captain America into the air to enter a building, hurl aside Black Widow and Black Panther, hurl cars at Iron Man and Spider-Man, extract and dissipate an enormous amount of gas, and even hold up a collapsed watchtower for several minutes to allow Captain America and Winter Soldier to escape. Maximoff was also capable of using her energy to slow the chemical reaction within Crossbones' explosive vest by reducing the particles' kinetic energy on a molecular level, although it caused her great strain due to the massive energy the reaction induced once it had started. She was even able to bring the immensely powerful Vision to his knees while influencing the Mind Stone in his forehead and blast him vertically down through a building's many floors. Her telekinesis was powerful enough to bend vibranium, as she managed to rip open the chest of Ultron's damaged primary body to summon his central processor to her hand, and was even strong enough to shatter the Mind Stone. She was also able to stop a massive line of Threshers and redirect them at Thanos' Outriders, as well as hold back a Chitauri Leviathan. During her second fight with Thanos, she lifted and flung large portions of debris at him. She then was able to use her telekinesis to hold back Thanos' sword even with the Titan using both of his arms in an attempt to overpower her, and was able to weaken its structural integrity, causing cracks to appear in it, before finally using an energy blast to cleave it in two. She then incapacitated him by lifting him into the air and began to squeeze his body, snapping off significant portions of his armor. She displayed great degrees of precision with her telekinesis, such as when she used it to heal Vision by telekinetically repairing his body on a molecular level. Maximoff was also precise enough to use her energy to remove a copious volume of poisonous gas by spreading her energy throughout every molecule of gas and making it dissipate into the atmosphere. Maximoff was able to use her telekinesis to organize the dishes in her kitchen, use it to help herself handle all the kitchen items while preparing a dinner, rebuild part of her house after having expelled Rambeau, lift Rambeau into the air to get her out of her house before dropping her to the ground, open a door in S.W.O.R.D. Headquarters, break the glass of a large window to access the lab where Vision's body was being disassembled, and hurl a car at Agatha. She also inadvertently strangled dozens of people at once. During her attack on Kamar-Taj, Maximoff was able to use her telekinesis to parry arrows and repel it back to the sorcerers, parry the attacks of several mystical snakes summoned by Doctor Strange, and to send both Strange and Wong flying away, leaving Strange stunned and Wong completely unconscious. In the same fight, Maximoff lifted America Chavez in the air before attempting to absorb her powers. Maximoff also used this power to lift and torture several sorcerers. Later, she brought Wong to the Darkhold Castle via her telekinesis after his Sling Ring failed to work. While possessing the body of her alternate self, she was able to throw many Ultron Sentries at once while attacking the Illuminati Headquarters and also crushed a sentry head using her telekinesis. In her battle against the Illuminati, she lifted up Mister Fantastic before ripping him apart. She also used her telekinesis to throw a statue at Captain Marvel as well as catching Captain Carter's Shield midair and throw it back at her, severing Captain Carter in half. She pulled America Chavez by her hair, threw Strange and Chrstine Palmer through a portal, threw her alternate self into the dining room, and destroyed the Darkhold Castle, causing it to crumble without much effort.
****Force-Field Generation: 's attacks]] Maximoff was able to create highly durable barriers of red energy that she could shape and manipulate as needed. She could use it to grab and break apart targets, protect others from enemy fire, contain a target or to cover and deflect attacks from enemies, such as Ultron's sentries. Like any physical barriers, the barrier could be broken with extreme brute force, as the Sentries were able to eventually break it. During her time as an Avenger, Maximoff learned to project her energy around herself, constructing a close-to-the-body psionic armor to protect herself from extreme impacts, such as falls from great heights or blows from superhumanly strong combatants, increasing her durability to a significant degree. This allowed her to land safely whenever she crash lands, as well as defending her against the might of superhuman combatants, such as Midnight and Glaive who sent her and Vision crashing through a glass roof after being shot down by Proxima Midnight's spear. Maximoff was also able to create a force field large enough to protect her entire family from Agatha Harkness' attack and later created a barrier to prevent Vision from intervening during her duel with Agatha. While battling the Illuminati, Maximoff created a force-field to block Captain Marvel's photon blasts while dodging Captain Carter's shield. During the same battle, Maximoff created an energy sphere to contain Captain Marvel's energy and use it to her advantage to push Marvel into a wall.
****Disintegration: Maximoff was capable of using her energy in such an acute telekinetic way that she was able to completely disintegrate objects, as she did with several Ultron Sentries after sensing her brother's death. She also used this to annihilate a Kamar-Taj sorcerer as she entered it and to disintegrate Strange's Sling Ring.
***Mental Manipulation: ]] Maximoff was able to deploy a form of mental manipulation, often as a type of illusory hypnosis, using the same neuro-electric interface that was the basis of her telepathic powers. This power could be hypnotic in nature as shown when she used it against the Avengers in South Africa, placing them in a sort of trance while she viewed the Avengers' memories. When using her power, her irises sometimes glowed a dark reddish color, especially when she concentrated it on specific targets. She was able to use this ability to cripple the Avengers, forcing them each to recall the darker events of their pasts and placing them inside daydream-like visions that rendered them nearly helpless. When this ability was in use, Maximoff's reddish energy took a more mist-like form, floating into the head of the victim in the form of neurons. The effects also distorted the victim's iris coloration, causing them to shine a dark reddish color. This also allowed her to control other people's actions, as she did with a considerable number of civilians in Sokovia to aid in their evacuation, causing them to experience a form of sleepwalking and making them all get up and leave the city. Maximoff's mental power was even strong enough to reverse the effects of the Mind Stone, one of the most powerful objects in existence, as shown when she freed Helen Cho from the stone's control. She could also manipulate the memory, thoughts, actions, emotions, and senses of others at will, as well as to induce sleep or pain and create illusions without any difficulty. After joining the Avengers, she initially stopped using these powers, but later resumed their use after creating the Hex. Maximoff could use her telepathy to affect the Mind Stone, such as when she forced used her power to make Vision phase through Hawkeye to release him. Maximoff could also use her psionic energy to read the Mind Stone and state that she felt Vision's consciousness. Maximoff was able to use this power to cause several S.W.O.R.D. agents to point their guns at Tyler Hayward. Maximoff was also able to suppress the personality of someone and replace it with one of her choosing, such as when she created the Hex where she subconsciously controlled the minds of the citizens of Westview to play roles in her sitcom reality. Maximoff was even able to control everyone in Westview for a long period of time. Maximoff displayed this power again on Agatha Harkness, forcing her to become the role of her sitcom character Agnes. While attacking Kamar-Taj, Maximoff was able to manipulate a sorcerer's mind and promptly command him to run. This made him follow her commands and run away from his post, leaving the force-field vulnerable to attack. While in her alternate self's body Maximoff used her mind control abilities to make Chavez open a portal to throw Strange and Palmer into an unknown universe and to open a portal back to herself.
****Emotion Manipulation: With her mental powers, Maximoff often used it in order to elicit fear or emotional pain in a person in the form of nightmarish hallucinations that could stun and weaken even an individual as powerful as Thor. These visions could depict things that a person feared, regretted, or general disturbances, though the nature of it was not up to Maximoff. She was able to know what her victim was seeing and be inside the vision with them, as demonstrated when she used the ability on Harkness.
***Telepathy: Due to her ability to interact mentally with others, Maximoff could read minds, communicate telepathically and experience the memories and thoughts of others. She also used this ability to temporarily see into Ultron's mind whilst he was uploading his consciousness into the android body of what would later become Vision and it was thanks to this that she was able to discover his genocidal intentions and rebel against him. Maximoff could also sense the minds and emotions of those around her as she could see Stark's fear in their first encounter and sensed Quicksilver's death, knowing exactly what happened to him as if she had been there in person. While her telepathic abilities could work inside the confines of Harkness' protection spell-ladened lair, she was unable to penetrate Harkness' mind due to the latter's own power. She could also resist and overpower other telepaths like Professor X with her own telepathy.
***Levitation: Maximoff was able to use this power to move through the air and simulate flight, in order to hover and safely float back to the ground. The use of this power manifested as a blast of psionic energy expelled from her hands onto the ground to propel herself up in the air, with a second blast used to slow her momentum as she approached ground allowing her to land safely. It operated more like an enhanced leap similarly to Hulk, thanks to the force of gravity pushing her down. Maximoff's power grew overtime; to the point that she could project herself, along with Vision; too far higher into the air and for much longer than before. After her resurrection and empowerment, she was able to effortlessly levitate several feet into the air while simultaneously lifting two massive pieces of rubble, no longer needing to actively project energy from her hands to levitate herself and later flew through the air to intercept a Leviathan before it could attack Valkyrie. During her discussion with Vision, Maximoff was able to float merely by holding the psionic energy in her palms, and later showed the ability again upon leaving Westview, indicating growth in her ability to fly. Maximoff flew around Kamar-Taj in order to attack the buildings and evade attacks. She flew herself up to Mount Wundagore and the Illuminati Headquarters.
**Chaos Magic: ]] Able to harness Chaos Magic, Maximoff was the realization of the myth of Scarlet Witch, a being capable of spontaneous creation. She could shape and manipulate this magic for different effects, such as forming tangible constructs of energy or cast spells without incantation. Her magic was primarily composed of the same red energy as her psionic powers, but mixed with darker red and black hues. Agatha Harkness revealed that Maximoff could wield Chaos Magic subconsciously without needing constant concentration to sustain the changes she's made, describing the Hex as "magic on autopilot." Initially, Maximoff had no control over this power, but upon studying the Darkhold, Maximoff gained more experience in the control of her magic.
***Reality Warping: ]] Maximoff could warp reality. Maximoff's reality warping abilities began initially on a small scale, however, as time progressed, her powers grew exponentially. Maximoff could also create small zones where reality followed her wishes and rules. The areas were surrounded by a partially invisible force field and appeared normal from the outside, as when she took control of Westview the town looked normal from the outside even though the reality had completely changed inside. When a person or object entered the area, it automatically became part of the reality. Using this ability, Maximoff was able to take control of Westview by placing a hexagonal force field around the town called the Hex, which emitted a type of radiation known as , a remnant radiation from the Big Bang. Inside the Hex, Maximoff had absolute power and could change anything to suit her thinking, being able to create a perfect world based on classic sitcoms, as well as use her powers to rewrite reality and make any person and any object adapt to the time in which they were live in Westview, demonstrated when she had Rambeau's bulletproof vest changed to fit the clothing of her world of classic sitcoms. In fact, every rewritten object inside the Hex, when it exited Westview, remained the same as it was inside, containing the same microscopic elements of their original forms. Due to the authentic sitcom setting, certain abilities also took on different forms within the Hex, such as the lack of energy discharge in the early eras, or the appearance of red smoke rather than energy when imitating Harkness' teleportation. This extended to Vision as well, whose powers were symbolized by the appearance of sparkles during the 1950s. The Hex could alter almost all aspects of reality, including the behavior, thoughts, and memories of the people living inside it, as well as the entire flow of time, all to Maximoff's will. However, inadvertently, the spell was flawed, which caused the suppressed consciousnesses of the Westview residents to still be capable of basic sentience, but removing their willpower. Essentially, they were aware of what they were doing, but were not capable of controlling their own actions. Additionally, every resident ended up feeling the same grief and sorrow Wanda felt over Vision. This was so emotionally taxing on them that it led to some residents becoming suicidal. Although at first the Hex was only found around Westview, when Vision came out of the barrier and nearly died, Maximoff expanded the Hex to save him, also causing everything in his path to be rewritten, transforming the S.W.O.R.D. Response Base into a circus and its agents into clowns. The Hex was able to do this even if Maximoff was not aware of it, as the Hex began to immediately disassemble Vision's vibranium body after he left, but Maximoff was unaware of it happening. Due to the nature of the Hex, Harkness described it as "magic on autopilot" because the Hex was capable of rewriting reality to fit Wanda's vision automatically without Wanda needing to say any incantations or even having to think about it. However, the magic of the Hex did not seem to work on people or objects that had not passed through its border first, as when Hayward's troops entered the Hex, they weren't affected by it because they never passed through the Hex itself. Upon gaining more control of her power by transforming into the Scarlet Witch, Maximoff was able to make the Hex disappear completely, reversing the changes it caused to everything and everyone that were still inside. When encountering a Multiversal traveler named America Chavez, Doctor Strange went to see Maximoff for help. After a brief discussion, she revealed that her farm was fake and they were actually standing in a fiery, burnt down, red woods. When trapped in the Mirror Dimension, Maximoff warped the borders to make it liquid in order to punch her hand through and grab victims through reflections in the room. She then crawled out of a gong, warping her body to do so. When attacking the Illuminati, she incapacitated Black Bolt by erasing his mouth and ripped Mister Fantastic apart into string-like pieces.
***Conjuration: With a wave of her finger, she was able to create wedding rings for herself and Vision. During the magic show on Westview, Maximoff was able to conjure a small crane to cover up Vision's flight. Later on, she was able to create a dog collar for Sparky. It was later revealed this was how she was able to conjure a copy of her deceased lover, Vision, within Westview with Chaos Magic, as well as creating an entire house for them to live in. She was also able to hide the Darkhold and conjure it at will.
***Transmutation: ]] Maximoff was able to change her dress, transform a real piano into a fake cardboard cutout, turn her and Vision's beds into a single bed, bring color to Westview and also bring fake butterflies on a mobile to life without meaning to. Maximoff was able to make herself four months pregnant inadvertently, and also caused her to give birth at a logarithmic rate. When dealing with pain from her contractions Maximoff inadvertently changed her coat several times and also accidentally brought life to a stork from a painting, however, when Maximoff tried to get rid of the stork, she was unsuccessful, as the most she could do was cause a puff of red dust to erupt around it. As her mental stability deteriorated, she further lost control of her surroundings, and began to inadvertently change objects in her home into versions from previous sitcom eras. While battling Agatha Harkness Maximoff used this ability to appear as if her life force had been drained by Harkness, including masking and hiding her energy while flying in order to trick Harkness into thinking she had lost, when in actuality, she was preparing runes around the Hex to strip Harkness of her magic. Once the Hex was reversed by Wanda, everything and everyone changed by it, provided they were still inside it, reverted to their original forms, including the clothing Wanda herself was initially wearing when she inadvertently created it. Maximoff could also transform herself from her civilian clothes to her Scarlet Witch uniform and back at will.
***Life Creation: Within the Hex, Maximoff could create living organisms, like her twin sons Billy and Tommy, though they would be destroyed if they left the Hex. During her pregnancy, Maximoff breathed life into plastic butterflies and accidentally brought life to a stork from a painting.
***Energy Absorption: 's magic]] Maximoff displayed the ability to absorb Agatha Harkness' Dark Magic and transform it into her own Chaos Magic. Unlike Harkness, who also needed to absorb life force in order to absorb magic from others, Maximoff was capable of absorbing magic and energy without killing her target. During the attack on Kamar-Taj, Maximoff was able to absorb Eldritch Magic's fiery energy from a cannon she was hit with. Later, she was able to almost fully absorb America Chavez's powers twice had she not been interrupted by Doctor Strange. During the fight with the Illuminati, Maximoff completely absorbed Captain Marvel's cosmic energy, leaving her completely vulnerable to any attack, which she ultimately used to kill her by dropping a statue on her after hitting her with one of her own photon blasts. When capturing America Chavez, Doctor Strange tried to attack her, but Maximoff absorbed his power and repelled it back.
***Astral Projection: Unlike traditional astral projection, Maximoff was able to project her astral form without losing consciousness of her physical self. She accomplished this by manifesting the Scarlet Witch outside of her own body, as demonstrated when she studied the Darkhold in her astral form, whilst also brewing a cup of tea in her physical form. She also used her astral form to mind control a young sorcerer to run and cause confusion.
***Power Bestowal: Maximoff has displayed the ability to grant superhuman abilities to others, either directly or indirectly. Maximoff birthed Tommy and Billy Maximoff with super-speed and psionics respectively. While Monica Rambeau was bestowed powers by walking into the Westview Anomaly.
***Teleportation: During the talent show she instantly transported Geraldine from backstage into the magic box. In her battle with Harkness, Maximoff was also able to disappear and reappear behind her, leaving behind a trail of red smoke as she did, imitating Harkness's own teleportation.
***Time Manipulation: Within the Hex, Maximoff could control the passage of time for all of Westview, notably causing the time period within the town to change overnight and even accelerating the day and night cycle to fit the length of her sitcom episodes. Maximoff reverted a whole chicken into its egg form and later reversed the entire flow of time inside her reality by saying "no" in response to a S.W.O.R.D. agent crawling out of a sewer. While expanding the Hex to save Vision, Maximoff caused time in Westview to completely stop.
***Illusion Manipulation: Maximoff could cast very life-like illusions, as she demonstrated by casting a very effective illusion on herself that was realistic enough to trick an experienced witch like Agatha Harkness. She also cast an illusion to transform the corrupted landscape she had been staying at into an apple orchard that was even able to deceive Doctor Strange.
***Weather Manipulation: When Maximoff's water broke she caused a rainstorm to erupt within the Vision Residence. After the rain stopped, she generated intense winds to pour in from outside in order to dry herself, Vision, and her house. In her battle against Harkness in the skies of Hex, Maximoff created dark clouds of lightning and thunder to cloud the runes she was secretly placing in the Hex energy walls. When she invaded Kamar-Taj, she conjured massive black clouds to signal her arrival.
***Elemental Manipulation: While experiencing contractions, Maximoff was able to cause an electrical power surge that intensified the light from a ceiling light and caused a power outage that affected the whole block, to ignite a fire within the fireplace and cause it to intensify, and to cause a faucet to spew water and a washing machine to overflow with water. At the Darkhold Castle, Maximoff ignited multiple fires to light up the dark palace.
**Witchcraft: Maximoff was very skilled and versed in witchcraft, she began using this magic by being able to copy a protection spell from Agatha Harkness, and after obtaining the Darkhold, her skills and knowledge in Witchcraft became even greater.
***Spell Casting: ]] Maximoff was able to cast runes to keep Agatha Harkness from using her magic. Maximoff also cast runes to enthrall beings like Ribboned Creature and Gargantos to go after America Chavez.
****Clairvoyance: While searching for America Chavez in Kamar-Taj, Maximoff was able to find her location through clairvoyance.
**Dark Magic: Maximoff obtained the Darkhold after her battle with Agatha Harkness in Westview. While residing in her hideout, she found that she was able to see into other universes. She became versatile in the use of the book's Dark Magic spells, but also became corrupted by it.
***Dreamwalking: ]] An ability gained by the Darkhold was the ability to dreamwalk. Maximoff could transfer her consciousness into the body of herself from other universes. However, use of dreamwalking could cause incursions. She dreamwalked into her alternate self's body so that she could live with her kids from that universe. She eventually had to go and stop Doctor Strange from getting the Book of Vishanti, so she went to Illuminati Headquarters and killed the whole team while in her alternate self's body. She then chased Doctor Strange, America Chavez, and Christine Palmer until they got to the Gap Junction. Once they got to the book, she destroyed it, opened a portal with Chavez's powers, and left that Maximoff's body.
***Physical Augmentation: 's attacks]] After acquiring the Darkhold, Maximoff could heighten her physical abilities. During the battle of Kamar-Taj, she was able to easily withstand a blast from one of the cannons without any injuries at all, even after her clothes were caught on fire. Later, during the battle of Mount Wundagore, Maximoff was able to withstand many punches and kicks from America Chavez even when she used extra-dimensional energy to boost the power of her attacks, which only temporarily staggering and knocking her a few steps back but with no injuries. Her speed and reflexes were also increased to superhuman levels, being able to adapt to every situation and fight with ease. During the siege of Kamar-Taj, Maximoff was able to block several arrows traveling at high speeds, even without looking. She was also able to parry attacks from various snakes summoned by Doctor Strange with relative ease. During her attack on the Illuminati Headquarters, Maximoff was able to block the attacks of a group of Ultron Sentries while simultaneously fighting another group. Maximoff can also heal herself instantaneously. When she was imprisoned in the Mirror Dimension and got out of it by fatally contorting herself, she healed herself almost immediately.
***Power Absorption: Having obtained the Darkhold, Maximoff gained the ability to absorb others' powers. She planned to use this ability on America Chavez to open up a portal to another universe, kill that universe's Scarlet Witch and then live as her sons' mother.

### Abilities

 
 
*Master Combatant: ]] Maximoff was originally a poor fighter, having no combat skills or formal training. However, with years of experience, she developed a fighting style in which she would infuse her psionic energy into her hands to greatly enhance her hand-to-hand combat skills and allow her to parry attacks from bladed weapons without suffering any harm due to her psionic energy protecting her hands from damage. Her combat instincts were also honed to the point she could react to and halt an explosion, parry attacks from Proxima Midnight, and catch Thanos' double-edged sword moments before it could strike her. By the time of the Infinity War, Maximoff had become skilled enough that she was able to engage Proxima Midnight, a combatant deadly enough to overpower Okoye and Black Widow, in close-quarters combat and defend herself adequately, although she was nearly killed several times. After being resurrected, Maximoff, now more powerful than ever and fueled by rage over Vision's death, was able to face Thanos directly in close range combat, managing to subdue and very nearly kill him, had it not been for his desperate air strike that knocked her back. During the fight with the Illuminati, Maximoff was able to trade a few blows with a far more experienced combatant such like Captain Carter before using her powers to kill Carter with her own shield.
*Expert Marksman: Maximoff was able to utilize her bolts of magic to attack, knock down and neutralize her opponents with relative ease. She displayed her marksmanship various times in battle. Most notably during her stand-off between Corvus Glaive and Proxima Midnight, where she shot her psionic bolts from a considerable distance at the pair. She was able to accurately attack strong points at Kamar-Taj to weaken its structures.
 
*Spy: Maximoff started basic training in espionage from her teammates, especially Black Widow, upon joining the Avengers, starting with masking her thick Eastern European accent with an American one. By the time she was sent to a mission in Lagos, she already knew basic tactics to hide in plain sight, which later would come in handy when she was on the run from the government.
*Expert Tactician: Despite initially poor in tactical skills, Maximoff eventually learned from her teammates. At the time of the Westview Anomaly, Maximoff was able to plan to put runes on the walls of the Hex without Agatha Harkness noticing it, defeating her. Also, she was able to act as if her life force had been drained by Harkness when in reality it was all an illusion. After gaining the Darkhold, Maximoff developed a plan to capture the Multiversal traveler America Chavez to use her powers and take herself to a universe where she raised her children, Billy and Tommy Maximoff.
*Multilingualism: Maximoff was fluent in her native Sokovian, as well as English. She initially spoke English with a heavy Sokovian accent, and although it had slightly faded by 2016 and she was able to drop it by 2018, her accent resurfaced when she confronted S.W.O.R.D. outside of Westview. Maximoff also knew some words in Spanish.

## Equipment

### Uniforms

 
*Sokovia Uniform: Upon deciding to fight with the Avengers against Ultron in Sokovia, Maximoff wore her black dress, black leather wristers, and black boots, with knee-high torn stockings, along with her jewelry. She was also given Natasha Romanoff's red leather jacket by her brother to wear over her dress, not actually having an official uniform to wear.
*Avengers Uniform: When Maximoff became an official member of the Avengers, she was provided her own uniform. This consisted of a black leather suit with a red corset and a red leather jacket over it that had two strips down the front. The uniform included elbow high black leather fingerless gloves, and tall, heeled boots with red piping on top of them. This uniform would soon be replaced.
*Second Avengers Uniform: Not long after joining the Avengers, Maximoff would receive a new uniform, similar to her previous one. This version also contained a black leather suit with a red corset but had an open red leather coat over it instead. The uniform also included red leather fingerless gloves and flare-heeled boots. Maximoff would wear this uniform during the Avengers Civil War and then wear it again during the Infinity War and the Battle of Earth. Later, she wore the outfit during her confrontation with S.W.O.R.D. outside of Westview.
*Scarlet Witch Uniform: Maximoff receives the red robes and regalia of Scarlet Witch upon defeating Agatha Harkness and absorbing her magic. Unlike her other uniforms, she is able to transform it from her civilian clothes and back at will. This consists of a red chestplate with angular faulds extending into an ankle-length skirt, elbow-length red fingerless gloves, black trousers and thigh-high boots, and an intricate red tiara. She can also manifest a red hood and cloak in addition to the rest of her uniform.
*Second Scarlet Witch Uniform: Not long after embracing the moniker of Scarlet Witch, Maximoff would receive a new uniform, similar to her previous one. This version also contained a red robes and regalia and a red chestplate but with long sleeves and with a black wash. The uniform also included a red and black ankle-length skirt, black trousers, black boots, and an intricate red tiara. Maximoff would wear this attire during her crusade.

### Other Equipment

 
*Darkhold: Maximoff retrieved the Darkhold from Harkness after defeating her. The Darkhold also prophesized the Scarlet Witch to destroy the world and her being more powerful than the Sorcerer Supreme. After a period of studying it, she was able to refine her magic, however; the Darkhold's influence proved too great for her and while the book made her more powerful it also corrupted her mind to the point she was willing to kill innocents and allies and even destroy universes. After she overcame her corruption, she destroyed every Darkhold in the Multiverse.

### Vehicles

*Quinjet: Maximoff joined Steve Rogers on the Avengers Quinjet and flew from Sokovia to Avengers Tower. She then flew with the Avengers on the Quinjet to return to Sokovia before flying back to the U.S. with the Avengers, where she then settled. Three years later, upon being rescued by her teammates in Scotland, she was transported in a Quinjet back to the Avengers Compound. Also, while traveling to Wakanda to try to take the Mind Stone from Vision, Maximoff was transported with her teammates in a Quinjet.
* : In 2023, a few weeks after being restored to life, Maximoff drove her car to S.W.O.R.D. Headquarters and then drove to Westview, New Jersey to her empty house lot. When Maximoff released chaos magic to create the Hex, her car was changed to fit the reality she chose; during the 1950s it became a ; during the 1970s, it became a ; in the 1980s, it became a , and during the 2000s, it became a ; it then returned to its original 2012 Verano form when the Hex was dispelled.

## Facilities
 
*Maximoff Residence: The Maximoff family lived in this residence. One day, The Maximoffs were watching the TV sitcom, , specifically the episode, , when their home was suddenly bombed, subsequently orphaning the Twins.
*Hydra Research Base: The Maximoff Twins were experimented and housed at the Hydra Research Base, located in Sokovia. Maximoff also was exposed to the Mind Stone here, where she unlocked her latent abilities and saw a glimpse of the Scarlet Witch. Maximoff watched The Brady Bunch to comfort herself here.
*Avengers Tower: Following the Battle of Seoul, Maximoff traveled to the Avengers Tower alongside Pietro to warn the Avengers about Ultron's plan. After witnessing the birth of Vision, Maximoff took a red jacket that was given to her by Pietro from the tower in order to prepare for their final battle against Ultron.
 
*Avengers Compound: The Facility was Maximoff's first home in the United States of America. In 2015, Maximoff was given a room at the Facility after becoming an Avenger and she trained there. She also fell in love with Vision at the Facility. However, in 2016, she was forced to leave the Facility after the Sokovia Accords. In 2018, she returned to the Facility briefly, and in 2023, she saw the ruins of the Facility, causing her to become angry at losing her only home.
*Vision Residence: Maximoff with her reality breaking, Chaos Magic, manifested a house on a property bought for her by the Vision in Westview, New Jersey. The Vision Residence hosted Vision, Wanda Maximoff, Tommy and Billy Maximoff and Sparky.
*Cabin: After leaving Westview, Maximoff isolated herself in a cabin situated on the plains next to the mountains, where she learned how to coexist in two forms. While brewing tea, her astral form studied the Darkhold and heard what seemed to be the cries of her children crying out for help.
*Darkhold Castle: After the destruction of the Darkhold, Wong led Maximoff to Mount Wundagore where the original Darkhold resided in the form of a castle. Maximoff started her ritual to absorb America Chavez's powers. But after Doctor Strange's intervention through Defender Strange's corpse, Maximoff realized her fault and destroyed the castle.

### Prisons

*Raft: After the Battle at Leipzig-Halle Airport ended, Sam Wilson, Maximoff, Clint Barton, and Scott Lang were captured by Tony Stark's team and imprisoned on the Raft for working outside of the law, Steve Rogers would later break them out.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Olek Maximoff † - Father
*Iryna Maximoff † - Mother
*Pietro Maximoff/Quicksilver † - Twin Brother and Former Teammate
*Vision † - Husband, Creation, and Consensual Victim
*Tommy Maximoff - Son, Creation, and Victim
*Billy Maximoff - Son, Creation, and Victim

### Allies

*Zrinka
*Costel
*Sokovian Police Department
*Avengers - Former Enemies, Former Teammates, and Friends
**Steve Rogers/Captain America - Former Thrall, Trainer, and Former Leader
**Tony Stark/Iron Man † - Former Thrall
**Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow † - Former Thrall and Trainer
**Bruce Banner/Hulk - Former Thrall and Resurrector
**Thor - Former Thrall
**Clint Barton/Hawkeye - Former Attempted Thrall and Close Friend
**Vision † - Love Interest and Consensual Victim
**James Rhodes/War Machine - Temporary Enemy
**Sam Wilson/Captain America
**Scott Lang/Ant-Man
**Peter Parker/Spider-Man - Former Enemy
**Carol Danvers/Captain Marvel
*Helen Cho
*Nick Fury's Crew
**Nick Fury
**Maria Hill †
**Cameron Klein
*Erik Selvig
*Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier
*Golden Tribe
**T'Challa/Black Panther † - Former Enemy
**Shuri
*Dora Milaje
**Okoye
**Ayo
**Nomble
**Yama
*Wakandan Royal Guard
*Jabari Tribe
**M'Baku
*Border Tribe
*Guardians of the Galaxy
**Rocket
**Groot
**Peter Quill/Star-Lord
**Drax the Destroyer
**Mantis
**Nebula
*Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange - Temporary Enemy and Former Attempted Victim
*Wong - Temporary Enemy and Former Attempted Victim
*Brunnhilde/Valkyrie
*Warsong
*Korg
*Miek
*Einherjar
*Ravagers
**Kraglin Obfonteri
*Howard the Duck
*Hope van Dyne/Wasp
*Pepper Potts/Rescue
*Gamora
*Thaddeus Ross - Former Enemy
*Laura Barton 
*Sparky † - Pet
*Monica Rambeau - Former Thrall and Friend
*FBI
**Jimmy Woo 
*Darcy Lewis - Former Thrall
*Ribboned Creature - Former Thrall
*Gargantos † - Former Thrall
*Elder Beasts - Allies and Former Servants 
*Wanda Maximoff/Scarlet Witch - Alternate Self and Former Thrall
*America Chavez - Former Thrall, Former Enemy and Former Attempted Victim
*Christine Palmer - Former Attempted Victim
*Tommy Maximoff - Alternate Son
*Billy Maximoff - Alternate Son
 

### Enemies

*United States Air Force
*Hydra - Former Allies
**Wolfgang von Strucker/Baron Strucker †
**List †
**Ultimo † - Victim
*Ulysses Klaue †
*Klaue's Mercenary
*Ultron † - Former Ally and Attempted Killer
**Ultron Sentries
*Brock Rumlow/Crossbones †
*Black Order
**Proxima Midnight † - Attempted Killer and Victim
**Corvus Glaive †
**Cull Obsidian †
*Outriders
*Thanos † - Killer
*Thanos † - Attempted Victim and Attempted Killer
*Black Order
**Ebony Maw †
**Cull Obsidian †
**Proxima Midnight †
**Corvus Glaive †
*Chitauri
**Leviathans
**Chitauri Gorillas
*Outriders
*Sakaarans
*Tyler Hayward - Attempted Killer
*S.W.O.R.D.
**Franklin - Former Thrall
**Monti - Former Thrall
**Rodriguez
*Westview Citizens - Former Thralls and Former Neighbors
**Dennis Webber 
**Todd Davis †
**Sharon Davis †
**Isabel Matsueda
**Sarah Proctor
**Harold Proctor
**Abilash Tandon
**John Collins
**Fred
**Linda
**Stan Nielson
**Mrs. Nielson
**Haddox
**Ralph Bohner
*Agatha Harkness † - Former Neighbor, Former Enthraller, Attempted Killer and Former Thrall
*Señor Scratchy
*White Vision - Attempted Killer
*Stephen Strange/Doctor Strange †
*Masters of the Mystic Arts - Former Allies
**Sara †
**Rintrah - Attempted Victim
**Weasel - Former Thrall and Attempted Victim
**Ariann - Attempted Victim
**Vinny
**Hamir † - Victim
**Hong Kong Master
**London Master
*Illuminati
**Charles Xavier/Professor X † - Victim
**Maria Rambeau/Captain Marvel † - Victim
**Peggy Carter/Captain Carter † - Victim
**Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic † - Victim
**Blackagar Boltagon/Black Bolt † - Victim
*Souls of the Damned - Attempted Killers and Victims
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
!Appearance for Scarlet Witch
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (footage) 
* (footage) 
* (footage) 
* 
** 
** 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** (voice; flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (files) 
* (footage) 
* (photo) 
* 
** (concurrent events; alternate universe) 
* (photo) 
* (depiction) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* (corpse; illusion & mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (voice & mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (depiction) 
* (voice) 

In an indefinite temporality:
* (footage) 
|-|Narrative=
In narrative order:
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (mentioned) 
* 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (footage) 
* (footage) 
* (footage) 
* 
** 
** 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
** (flashbacks) 
** (flashbacks) 
** 
* (footage) 
* 
* 
** 
** 
** 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
* 
** (footage; concurrent events) 
* 
** (concurrent events) 
* 
** (flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
** (voice; flashbacks; concurrent events) 
* (files) 
* (footage) 
* (photo) 
* 
** (concurrent events; alternate universe) 
* (photo) 
* (depiction) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (footage) 
* (mentioned; flashbacks) 
* (corpse; illusion & mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (voice & mentioned) 
* (mentioned) 
* (depiction) 
* (depiction) 
* (voice) 
 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Wanda Maximoff is a founding member of the Brotherhood of Mutants, being initially identified as a mutant and the biological child of Golden Age superheroes Whizzer and Miss America. Later, it was thought that she was the daughter of Magneto and his wife Magda Lehnsherr in Vision and the Scarlet Witch #4 (1983), nineteen years after Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver's first appearance. In Avengers & X-Men: AXIS #7 (2014) and then Uncanny Avengers #4 (2015), it is confirmed not only are they not related to Magneto but they are also not mutants, as the High Evolutionary was the one who genetically altered them as infants, giving them their powers, before returning them to their parents, the Maximoffs, whom they briefly believed to be their real parents again. Later on, it was revealed in Scarlet Witch #4 (2016) that Wanda and Pietro were actually the children of Natalya Maximoff, the sister of Django, who was a witch who went by the moniker of Scarlet Witch. Natalya and Django, in turn, are the children of a man called the Scarlet Warlock, and Django as well as Marya took in Natalya's twins after the deaths of their own, Ana and Mateo.
**Wanda Maximoff's stage name "Glamour" in Don't Touch That Dial is a reference to Glynis Zarkov, a resident with superpowers that she hid under the guise of the stage magician "Glamor", alongside her husband Ilya.
*Maximoff's comic book moniker "Scarlet Witch" was never spoken on-screen, until the WandaVision episode Previously On, although in Avengers: Age of Ultron, Iron Man once referred to her as a "witch." She is also credited as Scarlet Witch, and identified as such in the Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe - Avengers: Age of Ultron.
*Maximoff's Halloween costume sported in All-New Halloween Spooktacular! is accurately based on her comic-book outfit.
*Maximoff is 5'6" or 5'7". 
*Maximoff is the first main antagonist in a Marvel Cinematic Universe film to be a former Avenger.
**She is also the third female main antagonist in a Marvel Cinematic Universe film, following Hela and Ghost.
*Maximoff plays the guitar as evidenced by an acoustic guitar in her Avengers Compound room. She might also play the Ukulele.
*Wanda is twelve minutes younger than Pietro.
*Maximoff is the first and, currently, only character to have two Legends episodes that focus on her.

## Behind the Scenes

*Elizabeth Olsen was uncredited for her appearance in Captain America: The Winter Soldier.
*According to James Gunn, the post-credits scene from Captain America: The Winter Soldier featuring Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver was originally meant for Guardians of the Galaxy. 
*Scarlet Witch was originally supposed to make her debut appearance in Doctor Strange. 
* , and were considered for the role of Scarlet Witch before Elizabeth Olsen was cast.
*Despite the rights to Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch being formerly shared between and Marvel Studios, the former owned all rights to Marvel Comics mutants, hence why the MCU incarnations could not legally be identified as Mutants until the acquisition of 20th Century Fox by Walt Disney Studios.
**In the Russian dub of Avengers: Age of Ultron, Captain America refers to the Maximoff twins as "mutants," instead of "the enhanced."
*Maximoff speaks with a thick Eastern European accent in Avengers: Age of Ultron, which was toned down in Captain America: Civil War, but has an American accent in Avengers: Infinity War. Joe and Anthony Russo explained that this was a deliberate decision made by the character in-universe to make herself less recognizable and that she learned the skill from Natasha Romanoff. 
*Elizabeth Olsen and Joss Whedon coined the term "wiggly-woo" for the hand gestures Maximoff employs to inflict her powers. Olsen had the assistance of choreographer Jennifer White to plan the movements that would appear on screen. 
*Olivia Jackson, Sarah Molasky, Jennifer White, C.C. Ice, Hayley Wright, Karin Justman and Katelyn Brooke were stunt doubles for Elizabeth Olsen in the role of Scarlet Witch.
*Evie Wray, Ashley Lyn Blair and Delly Allen were stand-ins for Elizabeth Olsen in the role of Scarlet Witch.
*Laura Waggott was a double for Elizabeth Olsen in the role of Scarlet Witch.
*In a behind the scenes featurette of Captain America: Civil War that showcased Maximoff and Vision's relationship, Vision stated that her powers were "to manipulate molecular polarity, allowing her to alter reality." This is a reference to Scarlet Witch's powers in the comics.
*Elizabeth Olsen has stated that she does not like her corset due to it revealing too much cleavage, compared to other female characters being covered up. 
*In an interview with Comicbook.com, Kevin Feige stated that the Scarlet Witch's powers are, in fact, magic: "Her powers, she's never had any training, I'm talking about Scarlet Witch. She never had any training; she's figuring it out. Arguably, you could say that that's why her powers are much more chaotic and much more loose in the way that we showcased those light effects. In [Doctor Strange], some of what you might see today, even the cover of Entertainment Weekly, it's much tighter. It's all about focus. It's all about pulling energies from other dimensions in an organized and purposeful fashion, which is why they can do a lot more than she can in, at least, a much more precise way." 
*Wanda Maximoff's death in Avengers: Infinity War was originally intended to be permanent had Elizabeth Olsen declined to return, as her original contract with Marvel Studios involved three film appearances, with Olsen actually considering to leave the franchise due to not feeling that she "fit in" and the potential typecasting she could suffer. However, while discussing her character's planned resurrection in Avengers: Endgame, Kevin Feige persuaded Olsen to stay in the franchise by pitching her WandaVision. 
*In Michael Waldron's first script for Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, Scarlet Witch was a hero for most of the film and just turned evil in the film's final scenes, but such approach to her rivalry with Doctor Strange could be the majority of the film, was implemented in the final script. 

### Continuity

Maximoff was referred to as "Scarlet Witch" in promotional materials and credits for Avengers: Age of Ultron, Captain America: Civil War, Avengers: Infinity War and Avengers: Endgame. The Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe - Avengers: Age of Ultron and Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe - Captain America: Civil War noted that Maximoff used the alias of "Scarlet Witch" after she joined the Avengers. Furthermore, from 2015 to 2019, MCU tie-in material reflected this as a fact; for example, in the inspired canon comic Captain America: Road to War, Natasha Romanoff referred to Maximoff as "Scarlet Witch". However, at CCXP 2019, after showing the first concept arts for WandaVision, Kevin Feige spoke about Maximoff's moniker, saying the series would "show more of what Wanda can do [...], and most importantly, reveal a name that I'm not even sure we've said in the MCU yet, but we make a big deal of in the show, is the fact that Wanda is the Scarlet Witch. And what does that mean, that she is the Scarlet Witch?" WandaVision Will Introduce "Scarlet Witch", Affect All of Phase 4 The existence of the "Scarlet Witch" moniker in the MCU before the events of WandaVision was finally retconned with the release of the last two episodes of the show, Previously On and The Series Finale, where it was established that Maximoff had not only never taken the moniker of the "Scarlet Witch" but she had never heard of it. Head Writer Jac Schaeffer elaborated that in the last episode they wanted Maximoff to finally "take the mantle of the Scarlet Witch [in the MCU]". ‘WandaVision’ Head Writer Jac Schaeffer Breaks Down the Series Finale—and Beyond 

## References

 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

 

ru:Алая ведьма
es:Wanda Maximoff
fr:Wanda Maximoff
pl:Scarlet Witch
pt-br:Feiticeira Escarlate
tr:Scarlet Witch

Category:Characters
Category:Captain America: The Winter Soldier Characters
Category:Avengers: Age of Ultron Characters
Category:Captain America: Civil War Characters
Category:Avengers: Infinity War Characters
Category:Avengers: Endgame Characters
Category:Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness Characters
Category:WandaVision Characters
Category:Legends Characters
Category:Comic Characters
Category:Book Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Females
Category:Brown Hair
Category:Red Hair
Category:Green Eyes
Category:Red Eyes
Category:Criminals
Category:Musicians
Category:Sorcerers
Category:Witches
Category:Hydra Operatives
Category:Avengers Members
Category:Raft Inmates
Category:Enhanced Individuals
Category:Infinity Stones Exposure
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Brainwashed Characters
Category:High Body Count
Category:Resurrected Characters
Category:Deceased Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Thanos
Category:Characters Killed by Scarlet Witch
Category:Characters Killed by Themselves