|alias = 
|derivatives = Lena }}
|species = Human
|citizenship = (formerly) 
|gender = Female
|DOB = 1988–1989 
|DOD = May 2018 (resurrected in October 2023) 
|snapped = Yes 
|affiliation = West Chesapeake Valley Thunderbolts (formerly) Red Room (formerly; brainwashed) 
* (formerly; brainwashed) 
 (formerly) 
|movie = Black Widow Thunderbolts* Avengers: Doomsday (unreleased) Marvel unveils the first Avengers: Doomsday cast members – including Robert Downey Jr. as Doctor Doom Avengers: Secret Wars (unreleased) SDCC via Cosmic Circus on X - July 27, 2024 
|tv series = Hawkeye (3 episodes) 
|comic = Thunderbolts* Dossier (files) 
|actor = Florence Pugh Violet McGraw (young) 
|status = Alive}}
 
Yelena Belova (Russian: Елена Белова) is the adoptive younger sister of Natasha Romanoff, a Red Room operative who worked for General Dreykov as a Black Widow and a founding member and leader of the New Avengers. Following Romanoff's defection from the Red Room, Belova and other Black Widows were put through a mind-control program and turned into Dreykov's obedient subordinates. When she was freed from the Red Room's control, Belova joined forces with Romanoff, as well as their adoptive parents Red Guardian and Melina Vostokoff, to bring down the Red Room once and for all. They eventually succeeded and liberated all Black Widows, with Belova directly killing Dreykov. After parting ways with Romanoff, Belova spent two years freeing many of the remaining brainwashed Black Widows before she was killed by Thanos' Snap.

Upon her resurrection in the Blip in 2023, Belova attempted to seek out Romanoff, but was informed that she had died. While visiting Romanoff's grave, Belova was given an assignment by Valentina Allegra de Fontaine, who claimed that Clint Barton was responsible for Romanoff's death and that she was to eliminate him. In December 2024, Belova came into conflict with Barton and his protégé Kate Bishop. Belova held back against hurting Bishop, and though she came close to killing Barton, Barton managed to get through to Belova and explain that Romanoff's death was of her own choice to save Belova and the world. Coming to terms with Barton and accepting Romanoff's death, Belova abandoned her mission and departed.

Years later, a depressed Belova was still under the employment of de Fontaine until she sent her, along with other operatives, on a mission to kill each other in an attempt to get rid of any incriminating evidence while facing impeachment. Belova learned the truth and teamed up with U.S. Agent, Ghost and Red Guardian to escape getting assassinated by de Fontaine's forces, then they were recruited by Winter Soldier to help bring down de Fontaine and stop her plans to use Bob Reynolds as her own weapon. Belova and her team eventually saved both Manhattan and Reynolds from Void, and when they tried to apprehend de Fontaine, they were publicly declared by de Fontaine as the New Avengers instead, which she went along while asserting she and the others held de Fontaine's career hostage in case she turned on them again.

## Biography

 

### Early Life

#### Temporary Family Life

 ]]
 
Yelena Belova was born in Moscow, Soviet Union between 1988 and 1989. During her infancy she was taken by the Red Room to be rasied as a Black Widow. In 1992, when she was three years old, she was assigned by Dreykov to play the role as the younger daughter of Alexei Shostakov and Melina Vostokoff, with Natasha Romanoff playing her older sister, on a Soviet espionage assignment in Mount Vernon, Ohio, although due to her young age, Belova was unaware of the assignment and believed them to be her real family. 
 ]]
Belova joined the West Chesapeake Valley Thunderbolts soccer team, with Shostakov as their coach. Belova served the team's goal keeper, stating that wanted to be the one the team could rely on if they ever made a mistake. The team proceeded to never win a game, but Belova was always happy while playing with her team. Belova discovered the song " ," which became her favorite song, and would have it played often.
 
Late in the Summer of 1995, while playing in the backyard with Romanoff, she scraped her knee and called for her mother. Vostokoff came and helped her up and the three went inside. After dinner, Shostakov came and delivered news that the family had to leave within the hour. As they drove away, S.H.I.E.L.D. attempted to arrest them with help from the local police, but Shostakov resisted them with a gun. Vostokoff, Romanoff, and Belova boarded a plane while Shostakov rode on the outside. 
 ]]
The family flew to Cuba and with their mission over, the family was separated. As soldiers attempted to pull them apart, Belova clung to Romanoff while her older sister held the soldiers at gunpoint after taking one’s weapon. Shostakov then came and comforted them telling them that they were tough and that everything would be alright. The two were then sedated and brought to the Red Room. There, Belova was separated from Romanoff and trained to become a Black Widow. 

#### Red Room Training

 
 
As Belova trained at the Red Room, she became one of the best students. During one of their exercises, the girls were made to put together a gun, which Belova did in the faster than the other Black Widows in training. This resulted in Belova being spared from punishment as the other girls had their hands whipped.
 killed as her first mission]]
For her first mission, Belova was ordered to kill Anya, her friend also being trained in the Red Room. Belova lured Anya out to the snowy forest and hid from her. Belova soon revealed herself to Anya and apologized, as a man appeared from behind Belova and shot Anya, completing her first mission. Belova eventually graduated, which included being given an involuntary hysterectomy and had her ovaries and uterus removed. Now a Black Widow, Belova would complete missions for Red Room, which she had no choice in, as all of the Widows were put under a mind control by Dreykov. 

### Termination of the Red Room

#### Freed from Control

 ]]
 
In June 2016, Belova was sent to Morocco on an assignment with a team of Widows to retrieve the substance known as Red Dust: a substance that could break the mind control that kept the widows all under Dreykov's orders and rule. The team managed to locate the target holding the cure: a former Widow named Oksana. Oksana managed to evade them but Belova caught up to her. Oksana caught Belova's hand when she attempted to stab her, only for her to drop the knife, catch it with her other hand, and stab her in the stomach, then twisting the knife — but not before Oksana managed to free Belova by spraying her with the dust. 
 ]]
Freed, Belova was horrified at what she had done, but Oksana told her that it was too late for her and begs her to free the other Widows before bleeding to death. Determined to keep her promise, Belova cut out the tracker in her leg and went dark. However, realizing this would only last so long, she came up with the idea to send the vials of Red Dust to Natasha Romanoff who was now an Avenger, figuring she would have the resources to keep the Red Dust safe. 

#### Reunited with Natasha Romanoff

 ]]
 
Laying low, Belova hid out in a safe house in Budapest, Hungary provided by Rick Mason, only to be reunited with Natasha Romanoff. The two confronted each other at gunpoint, which led to a brutal confrontation, as the two of them fought throughout the apartment. The brawl concluded with the sisters choking each other with a curtain, so they call for a truce.
 about the Red Room]]
Romanoff enquired as to why Belova sent her the Red Dust, so she explained what it was and how she thought Romanoff would have gotten her fellow Avengers to use them to bring down the Red Room. This shocked Romanoff, as she believed the Red Room, and in addition Dreykov, were no more. Belova asked Romanoff to recount her mission in Budapest to kill Dreykov, so she did, but when Antonia Dreykov was brought up, Romanoff went silent.
 ]]
At that moment, Black Widows surrounded the apartment, and Belova and Romanoff were forced to escape by way of the rooftops to the other side of the complex, where Belova's motorbike was. They pushed a pipe over the side of the building to escape. A Widow also jumped on, but lost her grip and fell into the alley below. Belova ended up crashing through a window while Romanoff landed in the alley next to the Widow, who committed suicide in front of Romanoff against her will. After recovering, Belova reconvened with Romanoff. Romanoff asked her how many Widows were out there, and Belova replied enough and went to the motorcycle. Romanoff drove it while Belova jumped on behind her and the two tried to escape from the Widows.
 in chase]]
However, they soon crashed and were thrown off the motorcycle. In order to keep escaping, Belova hijacked a car, forcing a Hungarian man out by gunpoint, to Romanoff's displeasure, and jumped inside. As Romanoff drove them through the city, Belova asked what plan Romanoff had to evade the Widows, but Romanoff replies that her plan was just to drive them away. In order to get rid of a Widow pursuing them, Belova opened her car door, causing it to hit a pole and fly into the Widow, knocking her out.
 ]]
They were then pursued by Taskmaster, who shot an explosive arrow at the car, causing it to topple over and land in Nyugati Station. Belova and Romanoff got out of the wreckage, with Belova injuring her arm, but Romanoff told her not to bandage it so that they could create a fake blood trail to lure Taskmaster away. The two sisters hid in a vent, and waited for Taskmaster to lose track of them, with Romanoff explaining what happened on her mission in Budapest. 

#### Sisterly Bonding

 ]]
 
Once they were in the clear, Belova and Romanoff went to a gas station to get medical supplies. While they were there, Romanoff asked if Belova knew where the Red Room was, but she didn't know, as Dreykov moved locations constantly. 
 pose]]
Belova questioned Romanoff on why she never attempted to contact or find her, which Romanoff replied was because she thought Belova was living a normal life and didn't want to see her. But Belova didn't believe this, as she saw it as Romanoff just not wanting to her to tag along as she saved the world with the Avengers. Belova then asked about Romanoff's posing during fights, which she defended was done during her attempt to do some good, but Belova called them both out for being still trained killers, only that Romanoff was viewed as a hero.
 ]]
As they shared drinks, Romanoff stitched up Belova's arm as she explained more about the Red Dust and her time with the Red Room, expressing her infuriation at being made to kill with no independence and Dreykov still being able to abduct and brainwash young girls like them with no consequences. They then talked about their real parents, with Belova expressing her fantasy backstory she made for herself and Romanoff, and that she wanted to get a dog. With nowhere to go, Belova decided to help Romanoff kill Dreykov and end the Red Room together.
 ]]
Belova also got a vest, which was the first thing she's ever bought, as she wanted to do things now that she was free. Belova told Romanoff this as they drove, with Romanoff, knowing that Belova was just vying for her approval, initially teased her about the vest, but later admitted that it was cool. Belova and Romanoff arrived in Norway, where they were met by Rick Mason who supplied them with a helicopter, instead of a jet, so Belova teased him. Belova boarded the aircraft, and she and Romanoff changed into the white suits provided by Mason as they went to rescue their adopted father. 

#### Prison Breakout

 ]]
 
Flying to the Seventh Circle Prison in Russia co-piloted the helicopter, as Natasha Romanoff instructed Alexei Shostakov in escaping from the prison. Belova stayed in the helicopter as Romanoff went down to assist Shostakov, but soon came under fire, so she used a missile launcher, which caused an avalanche. Now with time running out, Belova quickly picked up Romanoff and Shostakov before they were killed in the avalanche, successfully escaping from the prison.
 and Alexei Shostakov]]
With Shostakov onboard, Belova punched him in the face, which made him ask if she was on her period, so Belova corrected him by telling him how she no longer had any reproductive organs due to the Red Room giving involuntary hysterectomies. When they asked Shostakov about the Red Room, he did not where it was, so he suggested they ask Melina Vostokoff, who could be found outside of St. Petersburg. Belova noted that they were low on fuel, but Shostakov told her they could make it. 

#### Family Reunion

 ]]
 
Upon landing somewhat roughly due to the helicopter having run out of fuel, Belova and Natasha Romanoff were hugged by Alexei Shostakov who voiced how proud he was of his daughters for their respective achievements. A disgusted and angered Romanoff quickly broke from his grasp as Shostakov held Belova, patted her, and gave her a kiss on the forehead. However, Belova remarked on how bad he smelled, due to having been in prison and broke the embrace as well. 
 ]]
Eventually the three arrived at Melina Vostokoff’s farm, where the reunited “family” sat at a table for dinner. Belova sat down with Romanoff, Vostokoff, and Shostakov, who had changed into his Red Guardian suit. They then discussed Vostokoff’s involvement in the Red Room as she revealed that their successful mission in Ohio twenty-one years ago was to achieve the ability to effectively mind control a person and take their free will from them, with Vostokoff demonstrating this on one of her pigs, Alexei, by commanding it to stop breathing before reviving it.
 
As the conversation became more heated, Romanoff bluntly denied the significance of their family and claimed that it wasn’t real. A heartbroken Belova, however, voiced how she believed their family was real even though she knew the history behind it, and vented her anger at Vostokoff and Shostakov for their part in her becoming a killer with no free will in the Red Room and Romanoff for doing nothing to help her once she managed to escape and stormed off. 
 ]]
While in a bedroom, Shostakov joined her and despite insisting she did not want to talk he stayed anyway in silence with her for a little while. However he ended up telling her a story of a fishing incident with his father that had gone wrong and ended with his father having to urinate in his hands to prevent frostbite from taking over, much to Belova’s annoyance and disgust as she stopped him and questioned the relevance of the story. Shostakov attempted to explain to her that fathers will try to do their best for their children, but Belova scoffed at this, reminding him that since they freed him, he had done nothing but essentially complain about how bored and annoyed he was with the assignment of having to act as her father despite the fact that to her he had meant everything and she loved him like a father before telling him to get out. 
 
Shostakov seemed to comply before stopping and began singing “American Pie.” This was Belova's favorite song as a child and she smiled upon hearing it, delighted to bond with her father. Together the two sang the song. However this moment of bonding was interrupted when the Black Widows located the farm and subdued Shostakov with numerous tranquilizer darts. Belova ran out of the room, only to be shocked unconscious shortly after by "Vostokoff," Romanoff in disguise, and taken hostage upon the Widows' helicopter. 

#### Destruction of the Red Room

 ]]
 
Arriving at the Red Room Academy, Belova, still unconscious, was taken to be operated on so that Dreykov would know how the Red Dust altered the chemicals in her brain. Belova was contacted by Melina Vostokoff, who had put a communication device in her ear, informing her of a blade hidden in her suit. Belova used the blade to cut herself free and kill the surgeons, and then went to retrieve the vials to free the Black Widows.
 
Making her way through the ceiling vents to cold storage, Belova dropped down, making a fighting pose like Natasha Romanoff, much to her disgust. Belova swiftly eliminated a guard, located the vials of the Red Dust, and began making her way to the Widows, all while being updated by Vostokoff on her progress. After learning that the Red Room was falling from the sky, Belova entered the training room, only to find it empty.
 ]]
Belova eventually found all the Widows, who were in Dreykov's office brutally attacking Romanoff. Having wrapped the vials around a grenade, Belova threw it over the Widows, causing the Red Dust to burst, ultimately freeing them from Dreykov's control. Belova helped her sister up and removed a knife from her back, and began to evacuate with the other Widows, as Romanoff stayed to collect the data on the other Widows.
 ]]
Seeing Dreykov escaping in his helicopter, Belova ran after them on the runway while the Red Room exploded behind her. She climbed on top of the helicopter next to a propeller and started to put together her baton, intending to stick it in the propeller and break the helicopter, preventing Dreykov's escape in a self-sacrificing move. 
 
As Dreykov ordered his men to shoot at her, Romanoff ran out of the Red Room and saw her on the helicopter. She begged Belova not to do it, but she instead yelled out about how their adventure was fun before plunging her baton into the propeller, destroying the helicopter and throwing her over the edge of the ship.
 ]]
As Belova was in free fall, plummeting towards the ground, Romanoff, also jumping off, caught up to her, having acquired a parachute, and attached it to her as they fell through the sky. Romanoff held onto Belova as they descended, but she soon had to let go when Taskmaster came after them, allowing Belova to land safely, while they fought in the sky. 

#### Family Split Apart

 reconcile]]
 
Belova was found on the ground by Natasha Romanoff, who apologized for not coming back for her when she left the Red Room, revealing that their family was real for her, too. This deeply touched Belova, and the two sisters emotionally embraced each other, as they were then rejoined by Melina Vostokoff and Alexei Shostakov.
 ]]
When Thaddeus Ross and his soldiers were approaching, Romanoff told her family to escape and that she would stay, but they all objected the leaving her behind. However, Romanoff was determined, as after repairing her family, she decided to go fix her Avengers family, so Belova decided to give Romanoff her vest. Romanoff gave her the last vial of Red Dust so she could help the other Black Widows. The freed Widows landed, and Belova, Vostokoff and Shostakov departed with them, saying goodbye to Romanoff. 

### Freeing the Black Widows

 enter Ana's house]]
 
Belova, alongside Red Guardian and Melina Vostokoff, mounted an effort to search the world for remaining Black Widows to free them from Dreykov's control, and deprogram their chemical-altered mind controls. In May 2018, Belova and Sonya tracked down Ana and infiltrated her house where they approached the ex-Black Widow herself. 
 ]]
Ana engaged in a fight with them, with Belova pointing a gun at her face, but Belova did not shoot, so Ana was able to disarm her. Eventually, Belova managed to gain an upper hand and while Sonya pinned Ana to the floor, Belova sprayed her with the Red Dust. However, to Belova's surprise, Ana was revealed to not being brainwashed by Dreykov, as she managed to purchase the house by working as an assassin for a living.
 ]]
After making a truce, Belova and Ana talked about her mission to save ex-Black Widows and Belova shared her results, saying that although her mission was difficult, it was worth it. Ana then asked Belova about Natasha Romanoff, to which she replied that her sister was doing well. Sonya then jokingly said that after they are done, Belova could reunite with Romanoff and live in New York City together, after which Belova left them to take a bathroom break. 

#### Snap and Blip

 ]]
 
In the bathroom, Belova stared at the mirror, slowly collecting herself before turning on the faucet. During this time, Belova found herself disintegrating into dust and could barely react before she found herself instantly rematerializing.
 
Belova became increasingly confused upon noticing the walls beginning to change around her and stepped out of the bathroom to see the house completely renovated along with a man and a little girl in the living room. Belova then raised her weapon, demanding to know what was going on and asked the man who he was, but Ana came in and defused the situation. She told her husband and daughter that Belova was an old friend.
 ]]
Ana informed Belova that it had been five years since they last met, and that half of the world's population had also been erased from existence as well, during which she married and adopted a daughter. Ana suggested that Belova perform contract work and offered her to stay at her house for a while, but Belova, realizing that the year was now 2023 and that she missed out five years of her life, declined and told her that she needed to contact her sister and let her know that she was okay. 

### Hunting Clint Barton

#### Mourning Natasha Romanoff

 's grave]]
 
Belova eventually discovered that Natasha Romanoff had died and erected a gravestone for her in Ohio, as well as acquiring a pet dog whom she named Fanny. Abandoning her previous mission of freeing other Black Widows, she instead met Valentina Allegra de Fontaine and worked for her on target operations. In December 2024, Belova paid a visit to Romanoff's grave, straightening out the stuffed animals, cards, and flowers around the grave while mourning the loss of her sister. She whistled the beginning of the tune that Romanoff would usually return, but no one responded, leading Belova to become emotional. 
 ]]
While Belova was mourning, she was interrupted by De Fontaine blowing her nose. Belova promptly told de Fontaine that she was on holiday leave and wanted a raise. De Fontaine said she could earn it with her next assignment and showed her a picture of Clint Barton, claiming that he was responsible for Romanoff's death and indicating him as the next target. 

#### Attacking Clint Barton

 ]]
 
The next day, Belova, sporting a black suit and night vision goggles, traveled to New York City and tracked Clint Barton down. She ambushed him on the roof of a building overlooking an apartment complex and started fighting against him. Barton held her off and threw out an arrow containing a zip line.
 ]]
Kate Bishop arrived on the zip line, so Belova immediately slammed her into the ground and aimed her gun at her. Barton stood between the two, but before Belova could shoot, she was kicked by Maya Lopez, knocking the gun out of her hands. Belova and Bishop ran for the gun, but Bishop got to it first and kicked it off the rooftop. Belova worked to eliminate her other opponents so she could get to Barton, using her Widow's Bite on Lopez and attaching a grapple to Bishop and throwing her off the side of the building.
 aiming at her]]
Belova and Lopez attacked Barton, but he was saved when Bishop returned to the rooftop and released a trick arrow that created a concussive blast, disorienting Belova. Once she recovered, Belova resumed fighting Barton, who managed to pull off her mask. She shot Barton with her Bite, but before she could finish him, she turned around to see Bishop taking aim at her. Belova just stared at Bishop and discouraged her from taking the shot, before dropping a grapple hook and jumping off the rooftop. 

#### Discussion with Kate Bishop

 in her apartment]]
 
Afterwards, Belova changed into civilian clothes and infiltrated Kate Bishop's apartment through the window. While waiting for Bishop, Belova became hungry so she made macaroni and cheese. When Bishop arrived, Belova surprised her from behind, causing Bishop to throw a bottle of hot sauce at her, which Belova caught.
 's accusations]]
While looking for utensils and being shocked at only finding one set, Belova invited Bishop to sit down and eat with her, but Bishop was defensive, as she noted that Belova had just tried to kill her. Belova gasped at the accusation, claiming that she never tried to kill Bishop, and that if she wanted to, she could have done so already. Belova stated that she wanted to talk and assured her that she had no weapons on her, although that was not true, as she forgot about her Widow's Bite on her wrists.
 ]]
Bishop sat down with Belova and watched her eat, before asking what she wanted. Belova enthusiastically answered that it was her first time in New York City, so there were a few things she wanted to see, such as the newly redesigned Statue of Liberty and the Rockefeller Center. Belova expressed her intrigue at in the United States, and asked Bishop for some recommendations for her to visit. Bishop questioned Belova on why she kept using her full name, so Belova elaborated that she knew a lot about her, including her parents names, education history, and that she recently saved a dog, which she found admirable.
 ]]
Bishop asked Belova if she had come to talk with Clint Barton, in Belova plainly answered that she was there to kill him. Belova turned serious and questioned why Bishop would defend him, bringing up his troubled past. Bishop replied that Barton had saved the world, but Belova insisted that it was her sister that saved the world. Realizing that Belova was Natasha Romanoff's sister, she was relieved she did not kill Belova, although it made Belova laugh that Bishop thought she could kill her.
 ]]
Bishop was confused as Barton and Romanoff were friends, but Belova questioned Barton's character, bringing up his past as Ronin. Bishop reminded her that he was also an Avenger, something Belova questioned the meaning of and stated that her sister was dead because of him. Bishop learned that Belova had been hired to kill Barton, so she told Belova to question who she was working for. Belova remained focused on her assignment, and asked where Barton was, but Bishop did not know. Belova went to leave, telling Bishop not to get in her way again, before jumping out the window using her grapple. 

#### Discovering Her Employer

 ]]
 
The next day, Belova discovered that she had been hired by Eleanor Bishop, so she followed her to a hotel and witnessed her meeting with Kingpin. Belova recorded the conversation between Eleanor and Kingpin, and then texted Kate Bishop, informing her that her of her discovery and sent the video as well. 

#### Infiltrating the Bishop Christmas Party

 ]]
 
Belova went to the Rockefeller Center and infiltrated the Christmas party held by Eleanor Bishop in order to find and kill Clint Barton. She walked passed Orville, who was stationed at the door working undercover for Barton and Kate Bishop, declining his offer to take her coat. Belova tracked Barton through the party, eventually finding him in the elevators. 
 ]] 
Belova waited for an elevator, where she was confronted by Bishop. Belova told Bishop she was only there to kill Barton and stopped Bishop from following her into the elevator. However, Bishop forced her way inside and tried to press the buttons to other floors to delay them. Belova simply slapped Bishop's hand away, but soon the two briefly fought, with Bishop slapping Belova across the face, much to her shock. Belova went to stop Bishop, but ripped off her dress, revealing her costume underneath.
 ]]
Distracted by the costume, Belova was unable to stop Bishop from pressing all of the buttons, so she removed her own coat, revealing her uniform, and tossed it at Bishop as she got off on the next floor. Belova rushed through the office to get to the window on the other side, but was chased by Bishop, who suggested they grab a drink together. Belova accepting, but only after she killed Barton, and kicked Bishop in the stomach to get past her. The two continued to fight as they ran through the rooms.
 but misses]]
Belova reached the window and went to use her baton to smash it, but her hand was hit by bolas thrown by Bishop. Stopped by the pain, Belova and Bishop discussed their moves, with Belova complimenting Bishop's body throw. Once she recovered, Belova told Bishop she had fun as she dropped a grapple and jumped out of the window. Belova ran down the building and came across Barton standing by a window, so she shot at him but he moved out of the way. Belova tried to shoot at Barton a few more times as she slid down the building until she reached the ground but missed. 

#### Confronting Clint Barton

 about her sister]]
 
Belova waited until Hawkeye was alone and went to the ice skating rink just as Kazi Kazimierczak was about to shoot him. Belova tackled Hawkeye, knocking him onto the ice to fight him herself. Belova asked Hawkeye to tell her what really happened on the day that Natasha Romanoff died. Hawkeye told her that Romanoff had sacrificed herself to save the world, but Belova did not believe him.
 ]]
Belova attacked Hawkeye, as Barton tried to defend himself and convince her that he was telling the truth. Hawkeye was not fighting back, but eventually managed to put Belova in a hold as he once again tried to plea with her to listen to him, but she still refused to believe him, breaking herself free of his hold. Belova asked Hawkeye why Romanoff would sacrifice herself for Hawkeye, and Hawkeye explained that he tried to fight her for it. Still not satisfied with Hawkeye's answers, Belova began wailing on him with her batons as Hawkeye begged her to stop.
 talk about her sister]]
Belova pulled out her gun and approached Hawkeye to finish him off as he laid on the ground. As she walked towards him, Hawkeye began to whistle Belova and Romanoff's secret whistle. As she heard the whistle, Belova stopped in her tracks and began to cry. She asked Hawkeye how he knew the whistle, and Hawkeye answered that Romanoff used to talk about Belova all the time. He told Belova that Romanoff loved her and always wanted her to be safe.
 and spares him]]
Belova expressed her envy that Hawkeye got to spend so much time with her sister, and her frustration that she was not there to stop her from sacrificing herself, but Hawkeye reminded Belova that there was no stopping Romanoff. Belova put her gun away and reached out her hand to help Hawkeye stand up. Hawkeye told Belova he was sorry and she nodded, before slowly turning around and walking away. 

### Finding Purpose

#### Becoming Depressed

 
 
Over the next few years, Belova continued to work for Valentina Allegra de Fontaine, despite being deceived into almost killing Clint Barton for her. During this time, Belova fell into a state of depression, which originated from the loss of her sister, but grew into a bigger feeling of emptiness. Belova turned her focus to her work, hoping that would give her purpose, but only felt that she was drifting. When Belova returned home from an assignment, she would think about the bad things she had done and resorted to drinking to cope, often passing out. Belova remained in contact with Alexei Shostakov, who moved to the United States, but he eventually stopped reaching out to her, making her feel even more alone. 

#### Destroying Evidence

 ]]
 
In the later half of 2027, Belova was given an assignment from Valentina Allegra de Fontaine to destroy evidence at the O.X.E. Kuala Lumpur Research Facility. A bored Belova traveled to Malaysia and went to the top of the Merdeka 118, where she parachuted off and landed on the rooftop of the facility.
 Research Facility]]
Belova made her way inside the building and knocked out several of the O.X.E. agents until she arrived at the lab, where she tied up one of the agents, as he was unable to get her access to the evidence. While waiting in the lab, Belova opened up about her lack of purpose to the agent and found a guinea pig in a maze. With no way to get past the facial scanner security system, Belova decided to just blow up the lab instead, so she pulled out an explosive from her top. Belova was stopped when she was found by one of the scientists, Houston, who held her at gunpoint.
 
Belova slowly approached Houston and ignored him as he tried to warn her about the dangers of Project Sentry. A fight broke out and Houston opened fire, so Belova took cover. Belova snuck up on Houston and attempted to subdue him, which unintentionally caused him to shot himself in the head. Unable to use Houston's face, Belova resorted to destroying the facility, taking the guinea pig with her. As she escaped from the building, Belova reported that she had completed her mission after the lab blew up. 

#### Visiting Her Father

 ]]
 
Seeking advice, Belova went to visit Alexei Shostakov at his home, where she inspected the limousine for his business. Shostakov invited his daughter inside and the two commented on it being a year since they had seen each other.
 if he feels fulfilled]]
Belova asked about Shostakov's work, so he claimed that he felt fulfilled from it, and she then revealed that she had come to discuss quitting her work for Valentina Allegra de Fontaine. Shostakov thought this was a bad decision and expressed his own desire to work for de Fontaine, explaining that he was in fact miserable with his current situation. Shostakov acknowledged Belova's sadness, so she opened up and asked what was the point of work, as she felt no fulfilment from it.
 ]]
Shostakov answered Belova's question poorly, which annoyed her, but he then told her that when he was his most happy was when he was serving his country and being worshipped. Shostakov noted that Natasha Romanoff shared similar feelings about being a hero and suggested Belova follow in her sister's footsteps. Belova did not want to hear this and changed the subject, noticing a picture of her old soccer team, which Shostakov recalled was a time when she was happy. 

#### Sent to Die

 ]]
 
As Belova left Alexei Shostakov's home, she called Valentina Allegra de Fontaine and accepted her next assignment. Belova told de Fontaine that she wanted to change her work to be more public facing, so de Fontaine promised to help her once she completed her final mission for O.X.E.
 looking for Ghost]]
Belova was tasked with stopping Ghost from stealing from an O.X.E. Vault, with instructions to kill her after discovering what she intended to steal. Belova traveled to Utah, where she witnessed Ghost phase inside the vault and went in after the thief. Belova made her way down the vault, finding a room full of O.X.E.'s property, including documents on Project Sentry, which Belova pocketed. Suddenly, Belova was shot at by U.S. Agent, so she blocked the bullets with a case and threw it at her attacker.
 ]]
Belova quickly returned fire, but was disarmed, so the two engaged in a fight, which confused Belova, as U.S. Agent was not her target. U.S. Agent revealed that Belova was his target, and they continued to fight, with U.S. Agent throwing Belova to the ground. U.S. Agent went to finish off Belova but was kicked away by Taskmaster, who informed Belova that she was not sent to kill her. Ghost entered the room, so Belova shot at her target with her Widow's Bite, but hit U.S. Agent instead.
 against U.S. Agent]]
As Ghost fought Taskmaster, Belova intervened and tackled Ghost, who phased away and kicked Belova in the face. Belova was again shot at by U.S. Agent, so she took cover, where she threw a knife at Ghost, who caught it. The knife found its way to U.S. Agent, who attempted to stab Belova, but she held him back with her Widow's Bite. The fight was stopped when Ghost shot Taskmaster in the head and they all heard someone vomiting. Belova broke free and grabbed a gun, and she, U.S. Agent, and Ghost aimed at each other.
 in the vault]]
Bob Reynolds stepped out from behind the boxes, so the three aimed their guns at him as the doors around them shut, trapping them all inside. Ghost went to leave, but Belova stopped her, revealing her orders were to kill her, only for U.S. Agent to say the same for Belova. This made Belova realize that de Fontaine had tricked them all to kill each other, so she informed the rest. U.S. Agent did not believe Belova, thinking instead that he was sent to arrest Belova and Ghost, which made both of them laugh. 

#### Escape from the O.X.E. Vault

 ]]
 
Ghost went to phase out of the room, but it triggered high-frequency sound barrier that hurt all of them. With nowhere to go, Belova watched as Ghost and U.S. Agent stole equipment off Taskmaster's corpse, so she told them to have some respect.
 
An alarm went off and the room started to get hotter, leading them to realize they were about to be incinerated. Belova made a plan for them to get Ghost out of the room, so they searched for the sound barrier's power source and destroyed it. Ghost phased out of the room and the rest waited for her to open to doors so they could escape. They suspected Ghost had abandoned them, so Belova accepted her fate. At the last moment, the door opened and the three ran, just avoiding being killed.
 
Belova suddenly found herself in a snowy forest, where she saw Anya call out to her younger self. Belova realized this was her memory of having Anya killed, and she was stunned as she witnessed the rest of the memory play out, turning her head away as Anya was shot. Seeing one of her most shameful moments pained Belova, and she was then shocked to discover Bob Reynolds standing next to her. Belova regained consciousness at the O.X.E. Vault, finding Reynolds' hand touching hers.
 to continue]]
The group questioned Reynolds, but did not remember anything, and soon he and Walker clashed with each other. Belova broke the two up and spoke with Reynolds alone, checking on whether he was fine, sensing that something was off about him. Reynolds claimed that was normal for him and suggested being left behind, not caring if he died, so Belova related to his feelings, trying to convince him to join them. However, Belova told Reynolds the best thing to do with his issues was to just push them down.
 from falling]]
The group climbed on top of the elevator, which had been shut off, so Reynolds came up with the idea for them to link arms and walk up the shaft. As they ascended, Belova and Starr compared their difficult childhoods. Once they reached the top, they did not know how to get out of the shaft without falling. Walker stole one of Belova's batons to secure his own safety, causing the rest to fall. Starr managed to stop her fall, so Belova grabbed onto her and fired a grapple at Reynolds, saving him.
 agents outside]]
Walker helped the others out of the shaft, each of them annoyed at him nearly getting them killed. Belova took back her baton and the four moved to the exit, only to discover O.X.E. agents stationed outside of the vault. When Walker went to make a plan, Belova questioned him being in charge, so he listed off his qualifications, only for her to dismiss them by comparing it to her being on the West Chesapeake Valley Thunderbolts as a child. Belova instead made the plan, first setting off an explosion, luring in the agents, turning off the lights so they could ambush them, and then escaping in a vehicle.
 execute their plan]]
Starr vanished, leaving Belova to take Reynolds with her to shut off the lights after causing an explosion at the exit, while Walker waited to attack the agents. Reynolds asked Belova for a gun, but she declined, promising to keep him safe. Reynolds revealed more about what he remembered from the experiment he underwent and revealed that he suffered episodes that result in his mind going blank. Belova went to turn the power back on, but it failed, so they rushed to help Walker, who was waiting for them to turn the lights on and blind the agents. Belova and Reynolds found several agents knocked out and Walker gone.
 ]]
More agents arrived, so Belova protected Reynolds as she dealt with them, although he kept moving into danger, so she tied herself to him with a firehose. Belova defeated all of the agents, but when one more appeared, she grabbed a gun Reynolds was holding and opened fire, only to discover it was Walker. Belova argued with Walker about the plan, but when they realized another wave was incoming, they hurried to escape. Belova, Walker, and Reynolds changed into the agents' uniforms and walked out of the vault.
 in the sky]]
The three were found by Starr, who stole a truck, which they all got inside and began to drive away. They were stopped, but before being caught out, the agents were distracted by gunfire. Belova, Walker, and Starr discovered that Reynolds had ran out of the vehicle to draw the agents' attention to him. Belova watched in horror as Reynolds was gunned down as they drove away. However, as they escaped, they spotted Reynolds plummeting out of the sky and hit into the ground, which caused the truck to crash. 

#### Forming a Team

 ]]
 
The three discussed what happened to Bob Reynolds, with Belova knowing that Valentina Allegra de Fontaine was responsible, showing the others the documents on Project Sentry. Ava Starr asked Belova about Taskmaster, so she explained that they all had tough lives that would end with them all being killed. John Walker talked about his family life, which intrigued Belova.
 ]]
The three walked through the desert, Belova spotted a vehicle in the distance, so they all dropped to the ground to hide. Belova quickly realized that it was Alexei Shostakov's limousine, and she was further embarrassed when he exited the vehicle and called out to her, warning her that de Fontaine intended to kill her. Belova, Walker, and Starr entered the limousine and Shostakov drove them away, explaining how he learned about de Fontaine's plans.
 
As Shostakov talked to Walker and Starr, Belova told them to ignore her father, although he commented on the group bringing the light back inside of Belova. Shostakov declared them a team and Walker sarcastically cheering for the Thunderbolts, making Shostakov think Belova had named them after her soccer team. Belova and Shostakov argued about who was the actual sponsor of little league team was before he continued about their potential as a team, which Belova was against.
 
Belova informed her father that de Fontaine was hunting them, but Shostakov felt that they needed to put a stop to her plans to use Reynolds. They were attacked by a convoy that began shooting at the limousine, so Belova moved out of the window and went to fire back. Belova shot at the convoy, and one of the vehicles exploded so she went back inside and the group discovered that Bucky Barnes had arrived and saved them from the convoy. However, Barnes also shot at the limousine, causing it to crash.
 are captured by Barnes]]
Barnes took the four to an abandoned garage and tied them all up, telling them they were all being used as evidence against de Fontaine in her impeachment trial. They explained to Barnes that de Fontaine tried to have them killed and that she was going to use Reynolds, but he did not believe them. As they talked, Belova found out that Walker had lied about his family life. Belova and Walker looked at each other in silence, with Belova disappointed to lose hope that people like them could have a normal life.
 ' words]]
Barnes received a call, which confirmed everything the group had been saying, so he untied them, telling them that they were coming with him to stop de Fontaine. Belova was confused, as she did think that they were the best suited people to do good due to their troubled pasts. Barnes motivated them by telling them to not run from their darkness, but instead do something about it. Inspired, Belova decided to stop de Fontaine and save Reynolds, which the rest of the group agree with. 

#### Confronting the Contessa

 fight in the Watchtower]]
 
The Thunderbolts made their way to New York City, where they acquired a moving truck and drove to the Watchtower. Belova sat in the back with John Walker and Ava Starr, where they discussed their equipment during the drive. Upon crashing through the Watchtower's entrance, the Thunderbolts exited the truck and defeated all of the O.X.E. agents.
 ]]
Valentina Allegra de Fontaine spoke to the team over the intercom, inviting them up to confront her, so the Thunderbolts entered the elevator and headed for the top floor. The Thunderbolts surrounded de Fontaine as she greeted them individually, with her commenting on Belova's appearance and questioning her desire for a public facing role. Belova insulted de Fontaine and asked about the location of Bob Reynolds, but she ignored the question and remarked on how they all formed a team.
 ]]
The Thunderbolts then witnessed Reynolds join them, only now he was wearing a gold and blue suit and went by Sentry. De Fontaine explained her plan to use Sentry to defeat the Thunderbolts, which she would spin to support her in her impeachment trial. De Fontaine ordered Sentry to apprehend the Thunderbolts, manipulating him to think the team were against him, so Belova begged him not to listen to de Fontaine, stating that she knew who he was. However, Sentry responded that Belova did not.
 defeat the team]]
Red Guardian attacked Sentry, commencing a fight between them, so Belova tried to get the Thunderbolts to stand down, but failed. Belova witnessed as her team were quickly bested, so she snuck up being Sentry and jumped on him, zapping Sentry with her Widow's Bite and telling him to stop. Sentry did not listen, and instead slammed Belova into the ceiling before throwing her aside. Sentry then defeated the rest of the team, forcing them all to retreat into the elevator. 

#### Emotional Breakdown

 ]]
 
The Thunderbolts walked out of the Watchtower, and as they argued about their next course of actions, Belova snapped and rejected them being a team. Belova proceeded to insult the entire time, pointing out how they were all bad people and calling them losers before walking away.
 ]]
Alexei Shostakov chased after Belova, who wanted to be left alone, but he continued to follow her. Belova stopped and confronted her father for disappearing on her after Natasha Romanoff died. Shostakov apologized, claiming he thought Belova did not want him. Belova tearfully opened up about how she was unhappy with her life due to the bad things she had done. Shostakov told his daughter they had all done bad things, but Belova was overwhelmed by hers, recounting how she had to kill Anya.
 ]]
Shostakov comforted Belova by telling her that before being taken by the Red Room she was a happy child, although she did not remember any of that. Shostakov then brought up why Belova chose to be the goal keeper on her soccer team, which was because she wanted to be the one people could rely on if they made a mistake. Shostakov finished by telling Belova that he still saw the good in her, which was why they needed each other. Belova was touched by her father's words and admitted that his speech worked. 

#### Entering the Void

 as the Void]]
 
Belova and Red Guardian discovered Bob Reynolds in the sky, although now he had been taken over by the Void, which worried Belova. The Void began to attack, causing debris to fall, endangering the civilians, so Belova followed after Red Guardian to protect them. Belova spotted a truck heading for an old woman, so she had Red Guardian boost her over to rescue the woman. The rest of the Thunderbolts arrived to save the civilians.
 ]]
When U.S. Agent was struggling to hold up a giant piece of debris by himself, the rest of the team rushed to help him, successfully tipping it over. The Thunderbolts were all applauded by the people they had saved, which took them by surprise. The Thunderbolts witnessed the Void vanish several civilians, causing everyone to flee, except Belova, who approached the Void, who repeated Belova's words about everyone being alone. Knowing that Reynolds needed to be saved, Belova decided to step into the Void.
 
Belova found herself back in the memory of when she had to kill Anya. Belova ignored the memory playing out and went to find Reynolds, but ran into a wall, trapping her. The memory replayed, so Belova went to stop Anya from being killed, only to be attacked by Anya and restrained by a tree, forcing her to watch her painful memory. Belova managed to break free and ran away, crashing through the wall and entering another memory.
 
Belova fell onto a table inside of the Red Room Academy during a memory when she and a group of other girls were forced to assemble a gun against one another. Belova protected her younger self from witnessing the other girls being whipped due to her being the fastest in the group. Belova spotted Reynolds in the mirror, but when she looked again she discovered that he was gone. Belova figured Reynolds was in the next room, so she shot at the mirror and crashed through it.
 
Belova instead dropped into her bathroom, where she found her past self passed out from drinking. Belova went to inspect her past self but was attacked by her. Belova was slammed against the wall and forced to drink from a bottle of alcohol until she fell down to the ground. The memory reset, so Belova called out to Reynolds, telling him to stop what he was doing. Reynolds appeared to Belova through the mirror, so she told him that she wanted to talk about what they discusses in the O.X.E. Vault. 

#### Saving Bob Reynolds

 from Reynolds]]
 
Belova suddenly appeared in the same room as Reynolds and asked him to stop his Attack on Manhattan, but he replied that he was not responsible, it was the Void. Belova listened as Reynolds explained how his mental state shifted, making him feel as though nothing mattered and that there was no point fighting the Void.
 with comfort]]
Overhearing commotion, Belova peaked into an adjoined room and witnessed Reynolds' memory of his father abusing his mother, who blamed Reynolds. Belova expressed sympathy towards Reynolds and sat down next to him to comfort him. Belova told Reynolds that her advice to push down his emotions was wrong, and instead they needed to let it out and spend time together. Reynolds questioned how Belova was sure, so she answered that it already worked for her being with her new friends.
 are attacked]]
Belova convinced Reynolds to try to escape from the Void together, but they were then attacked by objects in the room. Unable to fight back against the chaos, Belova and Reynolds were soon strangled by a curtain. They were saved when Ava Starr appeared and cut them free, followed by Bucky Barnes, John Walker, and Alexei Shostakov, who all entered the Void to save them. Reynolds explained that the Void was just endless rooms, so Belova decided to head for the worst one as their way of escape.
 and Bob Reynolds find the Void]]
The Thunderbolts made their way through Reynolds' memories, briefly being attacked by a past version of him dressed as a chicken mascot. They soon found themselves in the O.X.E. Kuala Lumpur Research Facility, where Reynolds was experiment on, and they were confronted by the Void. Belova told it they were leaving, but the Void refused and pinned Belova and Shostakov against the wall. The rest of the team were restrained except for Reynolds, who was told by the Void that the Thunderbolts did not care about him and that he did not matter. Belova denied the Void's claims, but was strangled with wires wrapping around her neck.
 from the Void]]
The team watched as Reynolds fought against the Void, but they all became concerned when Reynolds was beating the Void, as it was actually consuming him in the process. Belova yelled out for Reynolds to stop, but he continued attacking the Void. Shostakov lifted the table pinning them so that Belova could slip out, and she ran towards Reynolds and hugged him. Belova told Reynolds that he was not alone as the rest of the Thunderbolts rushed over and hugged Reynolds, stopping him from attacking the Void.
 ]]
The Thunderbolts were successful in freeing Reynolds from being completely consumed, which allowed them to escape the Void and return to New York City, which had now been restored. Reynolds had trouble remembering what had happened, so Belova checked if he was fine, which he assured her he was now. Walker asked what they do with Reynolds if he regained his memory, so Belova grabbed Reynolds' arm and stated that from now on they all stick together, which made him happy. 

#### Member of the New Avengers

 ]]
 
Spotting Valentina Allegra de Fontaine, they team chased after her to arrest her. However, they were ambushed when de Fontaine led them to a press conference she had set up and announced the team as the New Avengers. Seeing this as an opportunity to finally be seen as a hero by the public, Belova decided to play along and whispered to de Fontaine that the team controlled her now.
 
As the New Avengers, the team were supplied with new costumes and transformed the Watchtower into their headquarters. Fourteen months later, the New Avengers came into conflict with Sam Wilson, who was forming his own Avengers, which annoyed Belova as she felt that they were the official team due to the government's approval. Belova wondered who would be viewed as the real Avengers and asked Bucky Barnes to talk with Wilson, although he already did and it went poorly.
 
Belova commented on how Wilson had filed for copyright, which was making them lose credibility with the public, as well as how they were being not being informed on a space crisis that was happening. As Belova had a threat analysis ran by the Watchtower, Alexei Shostakov revealed his idea for them to rebrand as the "New Avengerz," but Belova shut him down. They received an alert, so Barnes instructed Belova to pull up a satellite image and ready the jets. The team then discovered an extra-dimensional ship entering Earth's orbit. 

## Abilities

 
*Master Martial Artist: ]] Belova is an extremely skilled and formidable hand-to-hand combatant and martial artist, having been gone through the training of the Red Room since young age in order to become a Widow, making her one of the most dangerous and best fighters on the planet. She was able to fight Natasha Romanoff evenly, matching her move for move before they had a truce. During the fight, she employed a wide variety of throws and locks. Compared to Romanoff's more acrobatic style of fighting, Belova has a more direct and hands-on way of fighting that seems heavily influenced by , including combat styles such as , , , , , and . Belova is able to quickly use her surroundings to her advantage and use random items as improvised weaponry. She was also able to easily fight off several surgeons at once while escaping the Red Room, and was able to quickly incapacitate a guard by disorientating him and sweeping his legs out from under him. Yelena was able to easily outclass Kate Bishop, while simultaneously being able to keep up with, and sometimes even gain the upper hand against, the extremely skilled and experienced martial artists Clint Barton and Maya Lopez, though Barton was more focused on protecting Bishop than engaging Yelena. Belova is also very physically strong and resilient, as she could flip her sister into a wall with one leg and lift Kate Bishop over her head and throw her off a building. Belova also has very good reflexes, being able to catch a bottle of hot sauce that Bishop threw at her head. At the O.X.E. Vault, she was able to contend with U.S. Agent and even used a takedown on him before he retaliated with his superhuman strength.
*Knife Mastery: with a knife]] As a Black Widow, Belova is highly skilled at using a knife in combat, being able to use it to quickly kill a former Widow and later use it in her fight against Romanoff. Belova was also able to quickly throw a two-inch blade into a Red Room surgeon's back with great accuracy while making her escape. She fought against U.S. Agent with a knife in the O.X.E. Vault and accurately threw another at Ghost, but she phased out of its path.
*Staff Mastery: As a Black Widow, Belova is highly skilled at using a staff in combat.
*Master Marksman: Belova is highly skilled and well-trained in firearms, including pistols, sniper rifles and grenade launchers. She could target the tower of the Russian gulag from a long distance.
*Master Acrobat: As a Black Widow, Belova is highly skilled in incorporating gymnastics and acrobatics into her fighting style as she battles opponents. She has been very flexible since a young age, as she could already assume the upward bow position at the age of six.
*Master Spy: Having trained in the Red Room, Belova is highly skilled in infiltration and spycraft. She created a detailed, extensive background story for her absent family.
 
*Master Assassin: As a Black Widow, Belova is a extremely skilled assassin, being able to kill her targets with incredible efficiency. She has killed many people while she was under the control of the Red Room, including Oksana. Belova also attempted to assassinate Clint Barton, as she was instructed to by Valentina Allegra de Fontaine.
*Pilot: Belova was capable of copiloting a helicopter with Natasha Romanoff, and piloting the helicopter by herself when Romanoff left to help Red Guardian.
*Multilingualism: Belova is fluent in her native Russian, as well as English and Hungarian.

## Equipment

### Weapons

*Black Widow Batons: Belova briefly utilized Black Widow Batons during the Destruction of the Red Room. Belova combined the batons into a staff and then plunged into the propeller of General Dreykov's helicopter, breaking the propeller and causing the helicopter to explode, killing Dreykov and his remaining soldiers. She later used her own when fighting against Hawkeye.
*Black Widow's Bite: Belova utilized her Black Widow's Bite to engage Echo and Hawkeye. Belova used it to immobilize them stunning them both so she would have an advantage, as she was taking on both Lopez and Barton as well as Kate Bishop.
*Combat Knife: Yelena used a combat knife to kill a rouge Widow. She later used a karambit style knife to escape and kill the Red Room attendants.
*Throwing Knives: Yelena carries serval throwing knives on her left thigh.
* : In the Red Room, Belova assembled a pistol before the other little girls could as an exercise which resulted in everyone else's hands being whipped.
* : Belova's preferred weapon is a subcompact pistol. She aimed it at her sister when they reunited after 21 years, but Romanoff swiftly disarmed her. She continued to use her pistol during her campaign to liberate other Black Widows, notably bringing it to Ana's house, and attempted to shoot Hawkeye with the pistol.
* : Belova disarmed her sister of her pistol when they reunited after 21 years.
 
* : Belova utilized a Glock 19 during her mission in the O.X.E. Vault, notably firing at U.S. Agent, and when their security chased the Thunderbolts.
* : Belova used a rifle against soldiers in the O.X.E. Vault.
* : Belova used a sniper rifle on an assignment in Morocco.
* : Belova used a grenade launcher when she and her sister rescued their father from prison.

### Other Equipment

*Uniform: As a Black Widow, Belova wore a standard issue black catsuit with protective padding on her shoulders, elbows and knees, belts, two weapon holsters, and tall, heeled boots. 
*Vest: Belova bought a vest shortly after getting released from the Red Room's mental conditioning, primarily attracted to its many pockets and making a few modifications of her own. While she was not wearing it in her reunion with Romanoff, Belova put it on after they escaped Budapest. Given she lent it to Romanoff after taking down the Red Room Academy, she would replace it with another bulletproof vest.
*Winter Uniform: Rick Mason provided Belova and Romanoff with white suits that would fit and blend with the snow environment of their upcoming mission in a prison. The costume had shoulder, knee, and elbow pads, as well as a holster on the back for equipment, and a belt with two thigh holsters. It became her primary costume afterwards, with Belova seen wearing it in Ana's house two years later.
*Tactical Uniform: In 2024, Belova wore a black tactical suit, complete with full-head mask. It featured a jacket with shoulder pads, and built-in wrist tasers.
*Night Vision Goggles: Belova wore night vision goggles atop her mask while attacking Clint Barton, before he overpowered her and took out her disguise.
*Green Uniform: In 2027, Belova wore an army green tactical suit when she contacted by Valentina Allegra de Fontaine for another mission. 

### Vehicles

*Motorcycle: Belova acquired a motorcycle and used it to get to her sister, Natasha Romanoff.
*Solovyov Air Helicopter: Thanks to the efforts of Rick Mason, Belova and Romanoff were able to use a helicopter to free the Red Guardian from prison, though the helicopter ran out of gas, and they had to abandon it.

## Facilities

*Rowley Residence: Before joining the Red Room, Belova lived in Ohio with her "Family", the Rowleys in their home. She was unaware that it was just an assignment from the Red Room however.
*Red Room Academy: As a child, Belova trained in the Red Room Academy to eventually become a Black Widow.
*Melina Vostokoff's Homestead: Belova visited her mother, Melina Vostokoff at her home to find out where to find the Red Room.
*Watchtower: While operating as a member of the New Avengers, Belova resided in and operated from the Watchtower.

## Relationships

 

### Family

*Father
*Mother
*Adoptive Paternal Grandfather †
*Alexei Shostakov/Red Guardian - Adoptive Father and Teammate
*Melina Vostokoff - Adoptive Mother
*Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow † - Adoptive Sister

### Allies

*West Chesapeake Valley Thunderbolts - Former Teammates
**Mindy - Childhood Friend
*Oksana † - Victim (while under Dreykov's control) 
*Black Widows - Temporary Enemies (while under Dreykov's control) 
**Ingrid †
**Lerato
**Helen
**Sonya
**Ana
**Finnish Widow
*Rick Mason
*Alexei
*Antonia Dreykov/Taskmaster † - Former Enemy
*Bruce Banner/Hulk - Resurrector
*Fanny - Pet
*Eleanor Bishop - Former Employer
*Kate Bishop - Former Enemy
*Clint Barton/Hawkeye - Former Attempted Victim
*New Avengers - Teammates and Friends
**Ava Starr/Ghost - Former Target and Former Attempted Victim
**John Walker/U.S. Agent - Former Attempted Killer
**Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier - Temporary Enemy
*Bob Reynolds/Sentry/Void - Close Friend and Temporary Enemy
 

### Enemies

*S.H.I.E.L.D.
*Red Room - Former Colleagues
**Dreykov † - Former Mentor, Former Enthraller and Victim
*Anya †
*Thanos † - Killer
*Maya Lopez
*O.X.E. - Former Allies
**Valentina Allegra de Fontaine - Recruiter, Former Employer, and Situational Ally
**Mel Gold - Situational Ally
**Holt
**Lima
**Foxtrot
**Tango
**Project Sentry
***Houston † - Victim
*Sam Wilson/Captain America
 

## Appearances

{| class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable" width="100%"
! Appearances for Yelena Belova
|-
|
 (flashbacks) 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* (flashbacks) 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* (files) 
* 
* (unreleased) 
** 
* (unreleased) 
}}
|}

## Trivia

*In the comics, Yelena Belova is a spy who was trained in the Red Room. Assuming the Black Widow alias, Belova was sent to kill Natasha Romanoff but later became an ally of hers. Belova was eventually killed by Romanoff but was later cloned and became the White Widow.
*Belova's favorite food is macaroni and cheese with hot sauce and green beans.
*Belova's favorite song is " " by Don McLean.
*Belova is 5'5". Yelena Belova Trading Card 

## Behind the Scenes

*Agel Aurélia, Michaela McAllister, Lucy Jayne Murray, Katy Bullock, Casey Michaels and Claire Hoogenboom were stunt doubles for Florence Pugh and Madeline Akey was a stunt double for Violet McGraw in the role of Yelena Belova.
*Molly Cravens was a stand-in for Florence Pugh in the role of Yelena Belova.
*Camilla Wimble was a picture double for Florence Pugh in the role of Yelena Belova.
*Mackensi Emory was an acting double for Florence Pugh in the role of Yelena Belova.
* , , , and were considered for the role of Yelena Belova, before Florence Pugh was cast.
*In an earlier idea for Black Widow, Belova and Romanoff were adversaries and Belova tried to dethrone her, but Scarlett Johansson didn't like it and thought it wouldn't work. Black Widow: Scarlett Johansson Reveals Alternate Version of the Movie That Just Didn’t Work 

## References

 
 
 

## External Links

* 
* 
* 

fr:Yelena Belova
es:Yelena Belova

Category:Characters
Category:Black Widow (film) Characters
Category:Thunderbolts* Characters
Category:Avengers: Doomsday Characters
Category:Avengers: Secret Wars Characters
Category:Hawkeye (TV series) Characters
Category:Humans
Category:Females
Category:Blond Hair
Category:Green Eyes
Category:Criminals
Category:Assassins
Category:Vigilantes
Category:Red Room Trainees
Category:West Chesapeake Valley Thunderbolts Members
Category:Black Widows
Category:O.X.E. Operatives
Category:New Avengers Members
Category:High Body Count
Category:Multilingual Characters
Category:Brainwashed Characters
Category:Resurrected Characters
Category:Characters Killed by Thanos